A Shower of Blessings
A Guru Yoga Practice to Accompany the Seven-Line Prayer
by Mipham Rinpoche

ah, rang lü tamal nepé dün kha ru
Āḥ! I am in my ordinary form; before me, in the sky
orgyen drimé dhanakoshé tso
Appears Oḍḍiyāna, and the immaculate Dhanakośa lake,
ting zap yenlak gyé den chü gangwé
Deep and full of water with eight kinds of purity.
wü su rin chen pé dong dap gyé teng
In its centre you dwell, on a jewelled lotus blossom, its petals open wide:
kyapné kundü orgyen dorjé chang
All sources of refuge combined, Orgyen Dorje Chang,
tsenpé palbar tsogyal yum dang tril
Ablaze in splendour with the major and minor marks of perfection, and embracing the consort
Yeshe Tsogyal.
chak yé dorjé yönpé tö bum nam
You hold a vajra in your right hand, a skull cup containing a vase in your left,
dar dang rinchen rüpé gyen gyi dzé
Beautiful in all your silk, jewel and bone ornaments.
öngé longné dechen zi jin bar
In an expanse of blue, white, yellow, red and green light, you preside resplendent, radiating
great bliss.
khor du tsa sum gyatso trin tar tip
All around you, gurus, devas and ḍākinīs gather like clouds.
jinlap tukjé char bep dak la zik
Pour down your blessings in a rain of compassion: watch over and care for me!
gyal kün ngowo chimé yeshé kur
Essence of all buddhas, in your immortal wisdom body,
dung shuk drakpö dé chak tak tu tsal
Now and always, I bow to you with passionate longing and devotion.
lü dang long chö dü sum gewé tsok
My bodies, possessions and all my merit, past, present and future
kunzang chöpé trin du mikné bul
I visualize as Samantabhadra’s offering clouds, and present them to you.
tokmé né sak dik tung ma lü shak
My harmful actions and downfalls, committed through beginningless time, I confess without exception.
sé ché gyalwa kün gyi yönten gyi
You alone have completely mastered the precious qualities of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
khyap dak chik pu gönpö nam tar la
And with all my heart I rejoice at your liberating life story.
nying né yi rang depé sol dep shing
With total trust I pray to you,
zap gyé chö kyi char chen beppar kul
And implore you: shower down a great rain of Dharma, profound and vast.
rang shyen gewé ngöpo kun dom né
Gathering all the actual merit of myself and others,
dro kham gyatso ji si né kyi bar
For as long as these infinite realms of living beings remain
gönpo khyö kyi namtar jé nyek té
I shall follow your example, Lord,
kha khyap drowa drenpé dön du ngo
And dedicate it all to guiding beings as limitless as space.

kyapné kundü khyentsé terchen po
You are all my sources of refuge in one, a great treasure of wisdom and love,
dü ngen nyik mé kyap chok rinpoché
Our precious, our greatest, protection in this dark age, the dregs of time.
nga dö güpé nar shing dung shuk kyi
Tormented and drained by the five kinds of degeneration, when I call on you
sol dep bu la tsewé tuk kyi zik
In desperate yearning, look upon your child with all the love of your wisdom mind.
gong pé long né tukjé tsal chung la
Let the power of your compassion burst out from your vast expanse of realization,
mö den dak gi nying la jin gyi lop
And flood my devoted heart with your blessing.
tak dang tsenma nyur du tönpa dang
Quickly show me the signs and marks of attainment,
chok dang tünmong ngödrup tsal du sol
And grant me siddhis, ordinary and supreme.
hung, orgyen yul gyi nup jang tsam
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
pema gésar dong po la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngö drup nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné shyé su drak
You are renowned as the Lotus-born,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drup kyi
Following in your footsteps
jin gyi lop chir shek su sol
I pray to you: come and bless me with your grace!
guru pema siddhi hung
Guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Recite The Seven Line Prayer as many times as you can.
Imagine that, because you are praying with sincere devotion, from the place of union and the
heart of the guru and the consort fine shafts of wisdom light—blue, white, yellow, red and
green—shoot out and dissolve into your heart, blessing and transforming your very being.
Recite the Vajra Guru Mantra as much as you wish.
om ah hung vajra guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
At the end of the session:
lamé né sum yi gé dru sum lé
From the three syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ at the three centres of the guru,
özer kar mar ting sum jung né su
White, red and blue rays of light strike out
rang gi né sum timpé go sum gyi
And dissolve into my own three centres, purifying the obscurations
drip jang ku sung tuk kyi dorjér gyur
Of my body, speech and mind, and transforming them into vajra body, speech and mind.
tar ni lama khor ché ö du shyu
Finally, the guru and his retinue melt into light
kar mar tiglé hum gi tsen pa ru
And into a red and white bindu marked with hūṃ,
rang gi nying gar timpé lamé tuk
That dissolves into my heart, through which the guru’s wisdom mind
rang sem yermé lhen kyé chö kur né
And my own mind merge inseparably, and so I abide in the ever-present dharmakāya.
a ah
a āḥ
As you utter “a, āḥ!” look into the actual face of the great primordial dharmakāya—the very
nature of your own mind that from the very beginning is utterly beyond alteration or change,
beyond rejecting or accepting anything at all. Once again, consider all illusion-like appearances
as the nature of the guru. Dedicate the merit and make prayers for auspiciousness,
so that peace and wellbeing prevail.
End the practice well by recognizing all illusory appearance as the nature of the guru, dedicating
the merit and making a prayer of prosperity.

On the eighth day of the waxing moon in the seventh month of ‘Taming All Beings’,1 this arose
from the oceanic mind of Mipham Nampar Gyalwa, one who prays and aspires to serve Guru Padmasambhava
in all his lives. May virtue ensue!
Maṅgalaṃ.

| Rigpa Translations, 2015.
↑ i.e., the Fire Pig year, 1887.