A Shower of Blessings: A Guru Yoga Practice to Accompany the Seven Line Prayer
Composed by Mipham Rinpoche and arranged by Śākya Śrī

Refuge and Bodhicitta
Begin the Seven Line Prayer Guru Yoga by taking refuge and generating bodhicitta:
hung, riktong ngowo tsokyé pema jung
Hūṃ! Lake-born Padmasambhava, empty awareness in essence,
kyabné kündü ngowor kyab su chi
You are the essential embodiment of all sources of refuge; I take refuge you.
si dir lobur trulpé drowa kün
May all beings bound to this life’s fleeting delusions
trulpa rangsang kadak long drol shok
Naturally dispel their delusion and gain liberation in the primordially pure expanse.
Recite this verse three times.
Offering a Torma to the Obstructing Forces and Visualizing the Protective Tent
hung, marik zungdzin trulpé jungpo nam
Hūṃ! Evil forces of ignorance, dualistic perception, and delusion,
torma di khyer tadral ngang du deng
Take this torma, and vanish into the realm beyond all extremes.
rangrig yeshe pogyur mepé ngang
Within the unchanging realm of naturally aware wisdom,
khor sum yé long ngang du tsam ché do
The primordial expanse beyond the three spheres, the boundary is set!
Recite the wrathful mantra, and expel the obstructing forces with wrathful substances.
benza jnana raksha raksha
vajra-jñāna rakṣa rakṣa
The Descent of Blessings
Play the ḍāmaru, and utter this invocation with signs of intense longing and devotion:
hung, dechen pema khyilwé shyingkham né
Hūṃ! From the pure land of blissfully swirling lotuses,
ku sum lhündrub tsokyé dorjé chang
Let the blessings of the Lake-born Vajradhara, three kāyas’ spontaneous presence,
né dir jin pob choktün ngödrub tsol
Now descend; bestow us with the ordinary and supreme siddhis!
chödzé kunzang rolpé gyen du gyur
These offerings become ornaments of Samantabhadra’s display!
om ah hum benza guru pema tötreng tsal benza samaya dza | awashaya awashaya a a ah | om benza
pu ja megha samudra hung hri tha |
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötreng tsal vajra-samaya jaḥ | avaśaya avaśaya a a āḥ | oṃ vajra-pūja-megha-samudra
hūṃ hrīḥ thā |
The Main Part: Generating the Deity
ah, rang lü tamal nepé dün kha ru
Ah! I am in my ordinary form; before me, in the sky
orgyen drimé dhanakoshé tso
Appears Oḍḍiyāna, and the immaculate Dhanakośa lake,
ting zap yenlak gyé den chü gangwé
Deep and full of water with eight kinds of purity.
wü su rin chen pé dong dap gyé teng
In its centre you dwell, on a jewelled lotus blossom, its petals open wide:
kyapné kundü orgyen dorjé chang
All sources of refuge combined, Orgyen Dorje Chang,
tsenpé palbar tsogyal yum dang tril
Ablaze in splendour with the major and minor marks of perfection, and embracing the consort
Yeshe Tsogyal.
chak yé dorjé yönpé tö bum nam
You hold a vajra in your right hand, a skull cup containing a vase in your left,
dar dang rinchen rüpé gyen gyi dzé
Beautiful in all your silk, jewel and bone ornaments.
öngé longné dechen zi jin bar
In an expanse of blue, white, yellow, red and green light, you preside resplendent, radiating
great bliss.
khor du tsa sum gyatso trin tar tip
All around you, gurus, devas and ḍākinīs gather like clouds.
jinlap tukjé char bep dak la zik
Pour down your blessings in a rain of compassion: watch over and care for me!
gyal kün ngowo chimé yeshé kur
Essence of all buddhas, in your immortal wisdom body,
dung shuk drakpö dé chak tak tu tsal
Now and always, I bow to you with passionate longing and devotion.
lü dang long chö dü sum gewé tsok
My bodies, possessions and all my merit, past, present and future
kunzang chöpé trin du mikné bul
I visualize as Samantabhadra’s offering clouds, and present them to you.
tokmé né sak dik tung ma lü shak
My harmful actions and downfalls, committed through beginningless time, I confess without exception.
sé ché gyalwa kün gyi yönten gyi
You alone have completely mastered the precious qualities of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
khyap dak chik pu gönpö nam tar la
And with all my heart I rejoice at your liberating life story.
nying né yi rang depé sol dep shing
With total trust I pray to you,
zap gyé chö kyi char chen beppar kul
And implore you: shower down a great rain of Dharma, profound and vast.
rang shyen gewé ngöpo kun dom né
Gathering all the actual merit of myself and others,
dro kham gyatso ji si né kyi bar
For as long as these infinite realms of living beings remain
gönpo khyö kyi namtar jé nyek té
I shall follow your example, Lord,
kha khyap drowa drenpé dön du ngo
And dedicate it all to guiding beings as limitless as space.

kyapné kundü khyentsé terchen po
You are all my sources of refuge in one, a great treasure of wisdom and love,
dü ngen nyik mé kyap chok rinpoché
Our precious, our greatest, protection in this dark age, the dregs of time.
nga dö güpé nar shing dung shuk kyi
Tormented and drained by the five kinds of degeneration, when I call on you
sol dep bu la tsewé tuk kyi zik
In desperate yearning, look upon your child with all the love of your wisdom mind.
gong pé long né tukjé tsal chung la
Let the power of your compassion burst out from your vast expanse of realization,
mö den dak gi nying la jin gyi lop
And flood my devoted heart with your blessing.
tak dang tsenma nyur du tönpa dang
Quickly show me the signs and marks of attainment,
chok dang tünmong ngödrup tsal du sol
And grant me siddhis, ordinary and supreme.
hung, orgyen yul gyi nup jang tsam
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
pema gésar dong po la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngö drup nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné shyé su drak
You are renowned as the Lotus-born,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drup kyi
Following in your footsteps
jin gyi lop chir shek su sol
I pray to you: come and bless me with your grace!
guru pema siddhi hung
Recite The Seven Line Prayer as many times as you can.
Imagine that, because you are praying with sincere devotion, from the place of union and the
heart of the guru and the consort fine shafts of wisdom light—blue, white, yellow, red and
green—shoot out and dissolve into your heart, blessing and transforming your very being.
Recite the Vajra Guru Mantra as much as you wish.
om ah hung vajra guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ
Conclusion
lamé né sum yi gé dru sum lé
From the three syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ at the three centres of the guru,
özer kar mar ting sum jung né su
White, red and blue rays of light strike out
rang gi né sum timpé go sum gyi
And dissolve into my own three centres, purifying the obscurations
drip jang ku sung tuk kyi dorjér gyur
Of my body, speech and mind, and transforming them into vajra body, speech and mind.
tar ni lama khor ché ö du shyu
Finally, the guru and his retinue melt into light
kar mar tiglé hum gi tsen pa ru
And into a red and white bindu marked with hūṃ,
rang gi nying gar timpé lamé tuk
That dissolves into my heart, through which the guru’s wisdom mind
rang sem yermé lhen kyé chö kur né
And my own mind merge inseparably, and so I abide in the ever-present dharmakāya.
a a
a āḥ
As you utter “a, āḥ!” look into the actual face of the great primordial dharmakāya—the very
nature of your own mind that from the very beginning is utterly beyond alteration or change,
beyond rejecting or accepting anything at all. Once again, consider all illusion-like appearances
as the nature of the guru. Dedicate the merit and make prayers for auspiciousness,
so that peace and wellbeing prevail.
End the practice well by recognizing all illusory appearance as the nature of the Guru.

Blessing the Feast Offering
Arrange whatever samaya substances you have, such as meat and alcohol.
hung, ah lé chöying dang nyam kapalar
Hūṃ. With āḥ appears a skullcup, as vast as the space of dharmadhātu,
om lé nang si dö yön tsok su sham
With oṃ, all appearance and existence are displayed as the feast offerings
hung gi dechen yeshé rolpar gyur
With hūṃ, they transform into the wisdom play of great bliss,
hrih yi tsa sum lha tsok gyé pa kang
With hrīḥ, gurus, devas and ḍākinīs, all the deities gathered, are pleased and satisfied.
om ah hung hrih
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ
With this bless the offerings.
The Invitation of the Guests and the Offering of the Feast
hung, orgyen yul gyi nup jang tsam
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
pema gésar dong po la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngö drup nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné shyé su drak
You are renowned as the Lotus-born,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drup kyi
Following in your footsteps,
dö yön tsok la chen dren na
We invite you to this feast of desirable offerings,
jin gyi lop chir shek su sol
So come now, bless us with your grace!
né chok di ru jin pop la
Pour down your blessings on this sublime place,
tsok chö yeshé dütsir gyur
Transform the gaṇacakra offerings into wisdom nectar,
drup chok dak la wang shyi kur
Grant us, the supreme practitioners, the four empowerments,
gek dang lok dren barché sol
Dispel obstructors, negative forces and obstacles
chok dang tünmong ngödrup tsol
And confer siddhis, ordinary and supreme.

hung, lama jetsün pema tötrengtsal
Hūṃ! Beloved master Pema Tötrengtsal,
rigdzin khandrö tsok dang chépa yi
With your throng of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
tsa sum kundü gyalwé kyilkhor la
Encompassing the three roots in this maṇḍala of the buddhas,
mö gü dung shuk drak pö solwa dep
In deep devotion, with fervent yearning, I pray to you.
dak shyen go sum gé tsok long chö ché
All the merit of my and others’ body, speech and mind, our wealth,
nang si dö yön gyé gu ma tsang mé
And everything desirable in the universe, every source of pleasure and enjoyment with nothing
left out,
kunzang dechen tsok kyi khorlor bul
I offer as Samantabhadra’s unending gaṇacakra of great bliss.
tuktsé gyé shyé tuk dam kong gyur chik
With all your compassion and love, accept them with delight, so your heart’s wishes are fulfilled.
solwa dep so guru rinpoché
Guru Rinpoche, I pray to you;
jin gyi lop shik rigdzin khandrö tsok
Vidyādharas and ḍākinīs, inspire me with your blessings;
mö den bu la chok tün ngödrup tsol
Grant this devoted disciple attainments, ordinary and supreme;
damtsik nyam chak tamché jang du sol
Let all my impairments and breakages of samaya be healed, I pray.
chi nang sangwé barché ying su drol
Obstacles outer, inner and secret—liberate them all into dharmadhātu.
changchup bardu dralmé jé dzin shying
Until I realize enlightenment, hold me close, without ever parting,
tsé sö nyam tok yar ngö da tar pel
Like the waxing moon let my lifespan, merit, experience and realization grow ever greater,
sampa lhün gyi druppar jin gyi lop
And bless me so that all my aspirations spontaneously come true.
om ah hung vajra guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ

Offering the Remainder
Once the guru and the assembled vajra brothers and sisters have enjoyed the feast, gather the
remainders and sprinkle them with amṛta:
lhak dü jikten drekpé tsok
Hosts of arrogant worldly spirits who collect the remainders,
döyön ngaden lhaktor shyé
Please accept this remainder torma of the five sensual delights,
pen dang dewé trinlé dzö
And carry out beneficial and favorable activities!
om utsita baling ta khahi
oṃ ucchiṣṭa-baliṅte khāhi
Aspiration
tsokyé lamé kyilkhor du
By making this feast offering
tsok kyi chöpa bulwa yi
To the maṇḍala of the Lake-born Guru,
dakshyen drowa malüpa
May I and every single other sentient being
kyilkhor chik tu drubpar shok
Attain realization within a single maṇḍala!
Dedication of merit and Prayers of Prosperity and Auspiciousness
hung kyemé chökü kha long né
Hūṃ! From the space-like expanse of the unborn dharmakāya
gakmé lha ku nangwé cha
The unobstructed form of the deity appears
rimé tong sal ngang du tim
And dissolves within the empty clarity beyond limits.
a ah
a āḥ
getsa changchub chenpor ngo
I dedicate these roots of merit to great awakening.
ngowo rangshyin tukjé tsal
Essence, nature, and compassionate energy
orgyen lama tsokyé jé
Are the Lake-born Lord, the Guru of Oḍḍiyāna.
ku sum lhün gyi drubpa yi
May the spontaneous presence of the three kāyas
tashi dampé delek shok
Yield the bliss and excellence of sublime auspiciousness!

This addendum for Mipham Rinpoché’s Seven Line Prayer Guru Yoga was uttered spontaneously by
Śākya Śrī Jñāna.

| Main visualization & feast offering translated by Rigpa Translations, 2015. Opening & concluding
verses by Śākya Śrī translated by Lhasey Lotsawa (Stefan Mang and Peter Woods), 2020.