Daily Lungta Recitation
by Mipham Rinpoche

om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
könchok tsa sum lha dang drangsong dang
Assembly of the Three Jewels, Three Roots, gods and sages,
rik sum gön dang namgyal lhamö tsok
Lords of the three families and the goddess Vijayā,
pema tötreng gya bö rigpa dzin
Padma Tötreng Tsal and all the vidyādharas of India and Tibet,
palgön tsokdak drala lha mak dang
Glorious Gaṇapati, warrior spirits and armies of gods,
gowé lha gön gesar kyebu ché
Lord of the personal deities, great being Gesar,
tendrel sipa gyü kyi lha nam la
And deities in the line of interdependent existence—
ngöjor yitrul kunzang chötrin bul
I present to you Samantabhadra’s offering clouds of real and imagined gifts,
solwa deb so tukjé jingyi lob
With compassion, please grant your blessings, I pray!
jepur té nen dön gek barché kyi
Pacify all circumstances that impair and diminish our lungta:
lungta gü ching nyampé kyen kün shyi
Black magic, evil sorcery, harmful influences, hindrances and obstacles!
tab khön mikha dra gyö pungsi sok
And pacify all forms of obstruction and disharmony:
mitün barché malü shyiwar dzö
Conflict, hostility, malicious gossip, rivalry, legal disputes, recurrent calamity, and the
like.
dzutrul kangpa shyi dang denpa yi
Greatly enhance the power and strength of the meritorious windhorse
sönam lungté tobshuk rab gyé né
Complete with its four miraculous limbs!
chö dang si dang chok dang tünmong gi
And grant us all the attainments—spiritual and temporal,
ngödrub malü yishyin drubpar dzö
Supreme and ordinary—just as we desire!
Mantra of Mañjuśrī:
om vagi shori mum
oṃ vāgīśvari muṃ
Mantra of Avalokiteśvara:
om mani pemé hung
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Mantra of Vajrapāṇi:
om vajrapani hung
oṃ vajrapāṇi hūṃ
Mantra of Guru Padmasambhava:
om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Mantra of the cycle of Kālacakra:
om ah hung ho hang ksha ma la va ra ya soha
oṃ āḥ hūṃ ho haṃ kṣaḥ ma la va ra ya svāhā
Mantra for Lungta:
om sarva graha nakshatra dhyami karani soha
oṃ sarva graha nākṣatra dhyami karaṇi svāhā
Mantra for controlling negative influences in the environment:
om hé hé tishta tishta bhendha bhendha dharaya dharaya | nirundha nirundha | amuka urna mani
yé soha
oṃ he he tiṣṭha tiṣṭha bhandha bhandha dhāraya dhāraya | nirundha nirundha | amuka urṇa maṇiye
svāhā
Mantra for Avalokiteśvara as the Jewel of Windhorse:
om pema tsinta mani dzola hung
oṃ padma cintamaṇi jvala hūṃ
Invocation mantra for Gesar and his entourage of dralas and wermas:
om mani radza ha ha hi hi hé hé ho ho | sarwa bidzaya siddhi hung
oṃ maṇirāja ha ha hi hi he hai ho hau | sarva vijaya siddhi hūṃ
Invocation mantra for the 'four animals':
om ah hung ho hé tak seng khyung druk dir yar kyé | kündü sarva du du ho
oṃ āḥ hūṃ ho he tiger, lion, garuḍa, dragon, rise up here! Gather all, gather gather all! hoḥ
Mantra for protecting longevity:
om benza ayukhé soha | dakchak gi tsé dang sönam pal dang lungta tamché gong né gong du kyé
chik
ọm vajra āyuṣe svāhā | Increase our lifespan, merit, glory and windhorse further and further!
Mantra of the essence of interdependent origination:
om yé dharma hetu prabhava hetun teshan tatagato hyavadat | teshan tsa yo nirodha evam vadi
maha shramana soha
oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhavā hetun teṣāṃ tathāgato hy avadat teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ
svāhā
Mantra for enhancing the qualities of lungta:
om bhur bhuwa sa | soti nama soha
oṃ bhurbhuva svaḥ | svasti nama svāhā
Mantra for all to be auspicious and good, and to create happiness:
om sarva tithi nakshatra grahé mangalé jo soha
oṃ sarva tithi nākṣatra grahe maṅgale bhyoḥ svāhā
Mantra to pacify obscuration in all directions, and particularly to prevent harm from the spirits
which 'own' the earth:
om akani nikani abhila manghalé mandalé soha
oṃ akani nikani abhila manghale maṇḍale svāhā
namo buddha dharma sanghaya mama shri yé mangala bhavatu soha
namo buddha dharma saṅghaya mama śrīye maṅgala bhavatu svāhā

Reciting this every day will bring lasting auspiciousness and will ensure that every action
undertaken is accomplished without obstacle, just as one wishes. It will cause the power and
strength of merit and windhorse to be greatly enhanced and renown and resources to increase.
All aspirations that accord with the Dharma will succeed, and the supreme and common
attainments will swiftly be attained.

By the one called Mipham.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.

Source: mi pham rgya mtsho. gsung 'bum/_mi pham rgya mtsho. 32 vols. Chengdu: [gangs can rig
gzhung dpe rnying myur skyobs lhan tshogs], 2007 (BDRC W2DB16631). Vol. 31: 49–51

Version: 1.2-20220120