Excellent Vase of Splendour: The Tsok Feast Offering to Accompany the Vajra Seven-Line Prayer
by Mipham Rinpoche

Arrange whatever samaya substances you have, such as meat and alcohol.
hung, ah lé chöying dang nyam kapalar
Hūṃ. With āḥ appears a skullcup, as vast as the space of dharmadhātu,
om lé nang si dö yön tsok su sham
With oṃ, all appearance and existence are displayed as the tsok offerings
hung gi dechen yeshé rolpar gyur
With hūṃ, they transform into the wisdom play of great bliss,
hrih yi tsa sum lha tsok gyé pa kang
With hrīḥ, gurus, devas and ḍākinīs, all the deities gathered, are pleased and satisfied.
om ah hung hrih
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ
With this bless the offerings.
hung, orgyen yul gyi nup jang tsam
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
pema gésar dong po la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngö drup nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné shyé su drak
You are renowned as the Lotus-born,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drup kyi
Following in your footsteps,
dö yön tsok la chen dren na
We invite you to this feast of desirable offerings,
jin gyi lop chir shek su sol
So come now, bless us with your grace!
né chok di ru jin pop la
Pour down your blessings on this sublime place,
tsok chö yeshé dütsir gyur
Transform the gaṇacakra offerings into wisdom nectar,
drup chok dak la wang shyi kur
Grant us, the supreme practitioners, the four empowerments,
gek dang lok dren barché sol
Dispel obstructors, negative forces and obstacles
chok dang tünmong ngödrup tsol
And confer siddhis, ordinary and supreme.

hung, lama jetsün pema tötrengtsal
Hūṃ. Beloved master Pema Tötrengtsal,
rigdzin khandrö tsok dang chépa yi
With your throng of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
tsa sum kundü gyalwé kyilkhor la
Encompassing the three roots in this maṇḍala of the buddhas,
mö gü dung shuk drak pö solwa dep
In deep devotion, with fervent yearning, I pray to you.
dak shyen go sum gé tsok long chö ché
All the merit of my and others’ body, speech and mind, our wealth,
nang si dö yön gyé gu ma tsang mé
And everything desirable in the universe, every source of pleasure and enjoyment with nothing
left out,
kunzang dechen tsok kyi khorlor bul
I offer as Samantabhadra’s unending gaṇacakra of great bliss.
tuktsé gyé shyé tuk dam kong gyur chik
With all your compassion and love, accept them with delight, so your heart’s wishes are fulfilled.
solwa dep so guru rinpoché
Guru Rinpoche, I pray to you;
jin gyi lop shik rigdzin khandrö tsok
Vidyādharas and ḍākinīs, inspire me with your blessings;
mö den bu la chok tün ngödrup tsol
Grant this devoted disciple attainments, ordinary and supreme;
damtsik nyam chak tamché jang du sol
Let all my impairments and breakages of samaya be healed, I pray.
chi nang sangwé barché ying su drol
Obstacles outer, inner and secret—liberate them all into dharmadhātu.
changchup bardu dralmé jé dzin shying
Until I realize enlightenment, hold me close, without ever parting,
tsé sö nyam tok yar ngö da tar pel
Like the waxing moon let my lifespan, merit, experience and realization grow ever greater,
sampa lhün gyi druppar jin gyi lop
And bless me so that all my aspirations spontaneously come true.
om ah hung vajra guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ

This arose from the lake of Jampal Gyepa’s mind on the tenth day of the second month of the
Hemalamba year,1 as a genuine wish-granting gem. Maṅgalam.

| Rigpa Translations, 2015.
↑ i.e., the Fire Bird year, 1897.