Great Treasury of Siddhis: A Guru Yoga of Paṇchen Smṛti
by Mipham Rinpoche

rang lü dorjé naljormar salwé
My own body appears clearly as Vajrayoginī.
chiwor chukyé nyidé den gyi teng
Above my head upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
kyabné kündü penchen smiti shyab
Is Paṇchen Smṛti, who embodies all sources of refuge.
rabjung chaluk pen shyu nyamshyak chen
Dressed as a monk with a paṇḍita’s hat and gesture of equanimity.
tukkar kyemé dorjé yigé tsen
At his heart is the syllable of the unborn vajra.
shang né yeshe lung ngé özer chen
From his nostrils emerge the five wisdom winds with rays of light,
dé drö jinlab zijin lammer sal
Vividly present with the warmth of bliss, blessings and majestic splendour.
mögü dungshuk drakpö solpa deb
With fervent, longing devotion I pray to you.
lü dang longchö dü sum gé tsok ché
My own body, possessions and virtues of past, present and future
kyab chok khyé la tendu bul gyi na
I continually offer to you, the supreme refuge.
changchub bardu dralmé jedzin ching
Care for me without ever parting until awakening,
chok dang tün mong ngödrub tanda tsol
And grant me the supreme and ordinary attainments, here and now!
Recite this with single-pointed devotion.
om ah hung benza maha guru smiti jnana sarwa siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru smṛtijñāna sarva siddhi hūṃ
The vital essence of the vidyādhara guru
Is here adorned with syllables of the master’s name.
By reciting these two sets of nine vajra syllables,
You will swiftly gain accomplishment.
At the end rest as long as you can in meditative equipoise with your own mind indivisible from
the guru. Between sessions recite extensive prayers of dedication and aspiration, such
as “In all my lives, may I never be separated from the perfect guru...”

Thus, in response to a request, accompanied by an auspicious scarf of divine fabric, from the
faithful Karma Wangyal, near the great stūpa representation of Paṇchen Smṛti,1 Jamyang Nampar
Gyalwa, who has devotion from afar for this great Paṇḍita, wrote this at the dharma
centre of Drentang. May virtue and goodness abound.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.
↑ i.e., the great stūpa at Dzamnyak (‘dzam nyag), also spelt Dzomnyak (‘dzom nyag).