Guru Yoga Focusing upon Noble Kurukullā
by Mipham Rinpoche

dü di né zung changchub nyingpö bar
From this moment on, until I achieve the essence of awakening,
jetsün pakmé shyab la kyab su chi
I shall take refuge at the feet of the foremost exalted Lady, and,
dukngal gyatsor jingwé khakhyab dro
So as to liberate infinite brings drowning in the ocean of suffering,
dral chir changchub chok tu semkyé do
Will generate the supreme mind of bodhicitta.

rangnang dakpa rabjam shying gi ü
I sit at the centre of a fantastic, emanated palace
ngotsar trulpé podrang nyamgawar
That lies within a vast display of pure buddha realms.
rang gi chiwor dab tong pemé ü
Upon my head, seated on a lotus flower with a thousand petals,
kyab sum kündü jetsün rikjema
Is the epitome of the Three Jewels, the noblest Kurukullā.
mar sal dar dang rinchen gyencha chen
Clear red, she is dressed in divine clothes and jewellery.
mi jik chakgya dashyu utpal dzin
She shows the mudrā of fearlessness and holds an arrow, bow and utpala flower.1
dorjé kyiltrung yeshe özer bar
She abides, seated in the vajrāsana within a blaze of wisdom light,
sé ché gyal kün düpé ngowor shyuk
As the very embodiment of all buddhas and bodhisattvas.
kyema lama jetsünma
Kye-ma! Noble Kurukullā,
khyé ni gyalwa tamché kyi
Mother of all buddhas,
yum gyur yeshe gyumé ku
You are the illusory wisdom kāya,
drowa kün gyi gön chikpu
Sole refuge and protector of all,
lhakpar döpé pongpa yi
And special provider for all those
kam chakchen la nyer gyurpé
Who are impoverished by craving.
ngön gyi damcha manyelwar
Don’t forget your past vow!
kal men nyamtak dakchak la
Look upon us, the poor and destitute,
yeshe chen gyi zik né su
With your eyes of wisdom.
tsewé chak gi ukyung tsol
Lend us a loving hand,
nyurwa nyi du jingyi lob
Quickly grant your blessings,
dechen wang gi ngödrub tsol
And bestow the accomplishment and empowerment of great bliss!
Supplicate Kurukullā from the very depths of your heart, the very marrow of your bones, with:
lama jetsün kurukullé khyen
Guru, Noble Kurukullā, know me!
And:
om kurukullé hrih hung soha
oṃ kurukulle hrīḥ hūṃ svāhā
Recite the above as many times as you can.
Along with the supplications mentally offer your own body along with all your possessions; in
fact, offer absolutely everything you can imagine as the seductive maṇḍala of great bliss.
Do this continually. Conclude your session with:
jetsün gyepa chenpö ö du shyu
The noble lady is delighted, melts into light
rang gi chiwo né shyuk nying ü tim
And, dissolving through the crown of my head, comes to rest within the very depths of my heart.
lü kün dechen dütsir marpö gang
My entire body fills with the red nectar of great bliss
tuk yi yermé nyukmé shi su ah
And the guru’s wisdom and my mind become one within the natural state. Ah.
When arising from the natural state view everything as the very essence of the guru, Noble Kurukullā,
make prayers of dedication and auspiciousness, and enter into your post-meditation
practices. With this practice and the recitation of 100,000 mantras you will achieve the
accomplishment of seductive great bliss. Samaya.

Jampal Gyepa wrote down whatever came to mind on the fifth day2 of the second month in the year
of the Iron Rabbit, fifteenth calendrical cycle.

| Translated by Sean Price, 2021.

Version: 1.1-20210706
↑ She has four hands; of the two on the right, one displays the mudrā of fearlessness and the
other holds an arrow; while of the two on the left, one holds an utpala flower and the other
holds a bow.↑ Literally, on the day of the number of sensory pleasures.