Illuminating the Path to Liberation: A Preliminary Practice (Ngöndro)
by Jamgön Mipham Rinpoche

lama khyen
O guru, care for me!
Three times

daljor nyé ka udum wara dra
The freedoms and endowments are difficult to find, like the uḍumbara flower,
nyé na dön ché yishyin nor lé lhak
And, when secured, are of immense significance — greater even than a wish-granting jewel.
dindra nyepa dari tsam shyik la
Yet now that we have this unique opportunity,
dön chen ten gyi dünma mi drubpar
We fail to accomplish what is of long-term value
dönmé chü zar gyurpa dakchak la
And instead waste our time in frivolous pursuits—
könchok kündü lamé tukjé zik
O guru, embodiment of the Three Jewels, look upon us with compassion!
daljor dönyö jepar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings and inspire us to make the most of the freedoms and endowments!
This was the first contemplation phase.
düjé tamché mi tak lok shyin yo
All conditioned things are as transient as lightning in the sky.
nöchü gangla sam kyang jikpé chö
Consider the environment or its inhabitants: everything perishes in the end.
chiwa ngé shing namchi chamé kyang
Death is inevitable, yet the time of death is uncertain.
takdzin sem kyi rang go kor né su
We thus deceive ourselves in the belief that things endure
bakmé ngang du nepa dakchak la
And spend our time without due care and attention—
könchok kündü lamé tukjé zik
O guru, embodiment of the Three Jewels, look upon us with compassion!
mitak chiwa drenpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings and inspire us to be mindful of impermanence and death!
This was the second contemplation phase.
karnak lé dré namyang chü mi za
The results of positive and negative deeds do not go to waste.
gyundré luwa mepé lam di lé
It is through the infallible operation of cause and effect
khor dang nyangen depé chö su nang
That all the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa come about.
rang jé rang la minpar ngé na yang
Although we are sure to experience the effects of our own actions,
tsulshyin jukdok mi nü dakchak la
Still we are incapable of acting and refraining from actions accordingly.
könchok kündü lamé tukjé zik
O guru, embodiment of the Three Jewels, look upon us with compassion!
gedik langdor gyipar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings and inspire us to adopt virtuous action and abandon harmful deeds!
This was the third contemplation phase.
zöpar kawé dukngal mang dangden
We face so many sufferings that are difficult to endure,
dewar nangwé yi lü gyurwa chen
And apparent pleasures deceive us with their transience.
zakché pungpo tadak dukngal gyu
All defiled aggregates are but the cause of suffering.
kham sum khorwa mé yi ob dra yang
Saṃāra's three realms are just like a pit of flames,
detar mi shé chakden dakchak la
Yet in our failure to understand this, we remain attached.
könchok kündü lamé tukjé zik
O guru, embodiment of the Three Jewels, look upon us with compassion!
ngejung sampa kyewar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings and inspire us to develop an attitude of renunciation!
This was the fourth contemplation phase.

Uncommon Preliminaries
Taking Refuge
dündu paksam shing chen yaga ngé
In the space before me is a great wish-fulfilling tree with five main branches;
ü su lama orgyen dorjé chang
In its centre is the guru Vajradhara of Oḍḍiyāna,
gyüpé lama yidam khandrö kor
Surrounded by the lineage gurus, yidam deities and ḍākinīs.
dündu tönchok dü sum sangye nam
In front of him is the supreme teacher together with the buddhas of the three times.
yé su nyesé tek chok pakpé tsok
To his right are the eight close sons and the noble assembly of the Mahāyāna.
gyabtu sung rab lekbam nampachen
Behind is the word of the Buddha in the form of scriptures.
yön du chok gyé nyenrang gendün dang
To his left are the eight supreme disciples and saṅgha of śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas.
takor yeshe chökyong tsok nam té
Surrounding them all are the wisdom dharma-protectors,
chok chu dü sum kyabyul tab ché kün
And all the sources of refuge of the ten directions and three times
ma tsang mepa til gong tar salwé
In their entirety with none missing, like a mass of sesame seeds.
dündu rang dang ma sok tö ché dang
Before them all, I, my mother and other close relations,
khakhyab semchen kün gyi gü tü dé
And all beings who pervade the whole of space bow down together in devotion
dü di né zung changchub nyingpö bar
And consider that from now until we attain the essence of awakening,
yiché chok gi kyab su drowar sam
We take refuge with the utmost confidence and trust:
namkhé né su namkha gangwa yi
I and all beings of the six classes respectfully take refuge
lama yidam khandrö tsok nam dang
In the gurus, yidam deities and hosts of ḍākinīs,
sangye chö dang pakpé gendün la
And the Buddha, Dharma and noble Saṅgha,
dak dang dro druk güpé kyab su chi
Who fill the expanse of space at the level of the sky.
Generating Bodhicitta
Then, to generate bodhicitta in the presence of these sources of refuge, first train the mind
in the four immeasurables, recite "May all beings have happiness...etc." as many times as
possible.
ho, jitar dü sum gyalwa sé ché kyi
Ho. Just as the victorious buddhas and their heirs throughout past, present and future
changchub chok tu tuk ni kyepa tar
Generate the intention to attain supreme awakening,
dak kyang khakhyab dro kün dral jé chir
Now I too set my mind upon supreme and unsurpassed enlightenment,
lamé changchub chok tu semkyé do
So that I may liberate all beings who extend throughout the whole of space.
Accumulate one hundred thousand recitations.
Then there is the special method of generating bodhicitta according to the resultant mantrayāna:
dak dang tayé semchen nam
I and other sentient beings, infinite in number,
yené sangye yinpa la
Have always been buddhas from the very beginning.
yinpar shepé daknyi du
In acknowledgement that this is how things are,
changchub chok tu semkyé do
We generate the mind of supreme awakening!
Recite this as many times as possible.
Maṇḍala Offering
Arrange heaps on the maṇḍala plate and recite:
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
chöying nyamnyi chökü shyingkham su
Within the dharmakāya pure realm, the dharmadhātu expanse of equality,
rang nang magak longku rik ngé shying
Are the self-appearing, unending sambhogakāya realms of the five families,
khakhyab tulkü shying gi köpa nam
And an array of nirmāṇakāya realms pervading the whole of space—
kunzang dechen chöpé trin du bul
All this I offer as the delightful offering clouds of Samantabhadra!
om ratna mandal pudza megha samudra saparana samayé ah hung
oṃ ratna maṇḍala pūja megha samudra spharana samaye āḥ hūṃ
With this, make the offering.
Vajrasattva Visualization and Mantra Recitation
ah, dak gi chitsuk pé dé den tengdu
Ā. Above the crown of my head, upon a lotus and moon-disc seat,
palden dorjé sempa dawé dok
Is glorious Vajrasattva, the colour of the moon.
dorjé dril dzin nyemma yum dang khyü
He holds a vajra and bell and embraces the consort, Vajragarvā.1
longkü ché dzok dorjé kyiltrung shyuk
In full saṃbhogakāya attire, he is seated in vajra posture.
tukkar da teng hung la yikgyé kor
On a moon-disc at his heart is Hūṃ, encircled by the hundred syllables.
dütsi gyün bab dikdrib dakpar gyur
Amṛta nectar flows down to purify misdeeds and obscurations.
Recite the hundred-syllable mantra with all four powers complete while visualizing the descent
of nectar and process of purification.
om benza sato samaya | manupalaya | benza sato tenopa tishta dridho mé bhava | sutokhayo mé
bhava | supokhayo mé bhava | anurakto mé bhava | sarva siddhi mé prayaccha | sarva karma su
tsa mé | tsittam shreyang | kuru hung | ha ha ha ha ho | bhagavan | sarva tatagata benza
ma mé muntsa benzi bhava maha samaya sato ah
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me
bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ
śreyaṅ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava
mahā-samaya-sattva āḥ
At the end of the session, recite:
gönpo dak ni mi shé mongpa yi
O protector! In my ignorance and delusion
damtsik lé ni gal shying nyam
I have gone against and corrupted my samaya.
lama gönpö kyab dzö chik
Guru protector, be my refuge!
tsowo dorjé dzinpa té
Chief of all the maṇḍalas, vajra holder,
tukjé chenpö daknyi chen
Embodiment of great compassion:
drowé tso la dak kyab chi
Foremost of all living beings, in you I take refuge!2
dak dang semchen tamché kyi ku sung tuk tsawa dang yenlak gi damtsik nyamchak tamché tol lo
shak so
I and all sentient beings openly acknowledge and confess all impairments of the root and branch
samayas related to body, speech and mind.
dikdrib nyetung drimé tsok tamché jang shying dakpar dzé du sol
We implore you: let our misdeeds, obscurations and faults of transgression—all our flaws—be
completely cleansed and purified!
In response to this plea, Vajrasattva says, "“Son/daughter of an enlightened family, your negative
actions, obscurations, wrong doing and downfalls are all purified.” Granting his forgiveness,
he dissolves into me. Through this, I and all other sentient beings become Vajrasattva.
Recite the six-syllable mantra:
om benza sato hung
oṃ vajrasatva hūṃ
Then, at the end of the session:
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
dorjé sempa drub gyur né
Attain the realization of Vajrasattva, and thereby
drowa chik kyang malüpa
Every single sentient being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
Reach his state of perfection too.
dak dang semchen tamché kyi
For me and all sentient beings,
damtsik nyamchak kün dak ching
May all impairments and breakages of samaya be purified!
di né changchub nyingpö bar
From now until we attain the essence of awakening,
damtsik nampar dakpar shok
May our samaya commitments remain entirely pure!
Offer aspiration prayers such as these.
Guru Yoga
emaho
Emaho!
rangnang dakpa rabjam shyingkham su
In the naturally appearing realm of infinite purity,
rang lü dorjé naljor mar salwé
My own body appears clearly as Vajrayoginī.
chiwo chukyé dab tong nyidé teng
At my crown, on a thousand-petalled lotus, sun and moon,
kyabné kündü orgyen dorjé chang
Is the embodiment of all sources of refuge, the Vajradhara of Oḍḍiyāna,
kar mar shyi dzum dorjé tö bum nam
White with a tinge of red, smiling peacefully, and holding vajra and skullcup containing a vase
of immortality.
longkü ché dzok tsogyal yum dang tril
In full saṃbhogakāya attire, he embraces the consort Yeshe Tsogyal.
ku la rangjung gyüdé kyilkhor dzok
Complete within his body are all the self-arisen tantric maṇḍalas.
tsa gyü lama khandro damchen ché
All the root and lineage gurus, ḍākinīs and oath-bound ones
til gyi gong bu chewa shyindu shyuk
Amass like a vast outpouring of sesame seeds.
ngayab ling né dendré yeshepa
The wisdom counterparts arrive from Cāmara (Ngayab Ling),
char tar babpa gompé ten la tim
Showering down like rain and dissolving into the visualized forms.
Seven-Line Prayer
hung orgyen yul gyi nubjang tsam
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Uḍḍiyāna,
pema gesar dongpo la
In the heart of a lotus flower,
yatsen chok gi ngödrub nyé
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
pema jungné shyé su drak
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus Born’,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drub kyi
Following in your footsteps,
jingyi lob chir shek su sol
I pray to you: Come, inspire me with your blessing!
guru pema siddhi hung
guru padma siddhi hūṃ
By reciting the Seven-Line Prayer either three or seven times, invite the deities, who then
dissolve into you.
Seven-Branch Practice
ho, dul nyé lü tü güpé chaktsal lo
Ho. With bodies as numerous as atoms, I bow down and prostrate in devotion.
nangsi shyir shyeng kunzang chöpé chö
The whole of appearance and existence arisen as the ground, I present as Samantabhadra's offering.
tserab né sak diktung chichi shak
All the misdeeds and downfalls I have committed throughout my lives, I confess.
khordé gé tsok kün la jé yi rang
In all virtuous deeds throughout saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, I rejoice.
dro kham jisi dorjé ku shyuk né
I implore you: remain in the vajra-kāya for as long as beings and realms remain,
zabgyé chö kyi khorlo kor du sol
And turn the wheel of the Dharma that is profound and vast.
gé tsok malü sangye tob chir ngo
All virtues without exception I dedicate towards the attainment of awakening.
Invocation and Prayer
nubchok orgyen wang gi podrang du
To the west, in Oḍḍiyāna's palace of power,
deshek ku sung tuk kyi trulpa té
You appeared as an emanation of the sugatas' body, speech and mind,
dzambuling du drowé dön la jön
And came to this world of Jambudvīpa for ordinary beings' sake,
rigdzin khandro mangpö khor gyi kor
Surrounded by a retinue of many vidyādharas and ḍākinīs—
pema jungné kyi lhatsok la solwa deb
Assembled deities of Padmasambhava, to you I pray!
orgyen pema jungné la solwa deb
Padmasambhava of Oḍḍiyāna, to you I pray!
dak la wang kur jin gyi lab tu sol
Grant me empowerment and inspire me with your blessings, I pray!
Pray with fervent devotion and consider that you receive empowerments and blessings as a stream
of light-rays and nectar enters your crown. Alternatively, you can practise guru yoga
with the Oḍḍiyāna Guru inseparable from any yidam deity. In the case of Hayagrīva for example,
you would visualize him as being the Great Oḍḍiyāna Guru in essence and Hayagrīva in
appearance. Then recite:
mar nak drusum wang gi shyalyé na
In the dark red triangular mansion of power,
dü nak pomo dzipé den tengdu
Treading on the dark māra demons, male and female,
wang gi gyalpo pema heruka
Arises Padma Heruka, king of power,
pema rik kyi trowo nam kyi kor
Surrounded by the wrathful deities of the Padma family
tamdrin wang gi lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, mighty Hayagrīva and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!3
dak la wang kur jin gyi lab tu sol
Grant me empowerment and inspire me with your blessings, I pray!
And pray with these seven lines.
Similarly for Yamāntaka, you would use the following:
tingnak é lé drakpö shyalyé na
In the wrathful mansion that arises from the dark blue syllable é,
shinjé chu lang dzipé den tengdu
Trampling on Yama, the water buffalo,
jampal yamantaka shinjé shé
Is Mañjuśrī in the form of Yamāntaka, slayer of the Lord of Death,
shepo trowo drekpé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his horde of wild and wrathful slaughterers:
shinjé shepö lhatsok la solwa deb
To you, Yamāntaka and all your deities, we pray!
orgyen pemajungné la solwa deb
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!4
dak la wang kur jin gyi lab tu sol
Grant me empowerment and inspire me with your blessings, I pray!
Receiving Empowerment
Then at the end of the session receive the four empowerments with:
lamé né sum yigé dru sum lé
From the three syllables at the guru's three centres
özer kar mar ting sum jung né su
Stream out rays of white, red and blue light,
rang gi né sum timpé jin gyi lab
Which dissolve into my own three centres, infusing me with blessings.
lar yang lama khor ché ö du shyu
Then the guru and retinue melt into light,
tsangpé lam né nying gi tikler tim
And, having entered the brahma-path, dissolve into the core of my heart.
lamé tuk dang rangsem yermé pa
Then, with my own mind inseparable from the guru's wisdom,
semnyi nyukma chökü ngang shyakpé
I rest in an experience of mind's genuine nature, dharmakāya.
dribpa shyi dak wang shyi yeshe tob
This purifies the four obscurations, and I obtain the wisdom of the four empowerments.
lam shyi jong shing ku shyi ngöngyur pé
With mastery of the four paths and realization of the four kāyas,
jinlab wangkur malü tobpar gyur
I receive each and every form of blessing and empowerment.
om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Reflect in this way and recite the Vajra Guru mantra as many times as possible, then conclude
with:
kyewa küntu yangdak lama dang
In all my lives, may I never be separated from the perfect guru,
dralmé chö kyi pal la longchö ching
And having benefited fully from the splendour of the Dharma,
sa dang lam gyi yönten rabdzok né
May I perfect the qualities of the five paths and ten bhūmis,
dorjé chang gi gopang nyur tob shok
And swiftly attain the sublime level of Vajradhara!
Recite prayers of aspiration such as this.
This preliminary practice was arranged by Mipham Jampal Gyepa. May virtue and goodness increase!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.
↑ Although Vajrāṭopā is sometimes given as the Sanskrit name of Vajrasattva's consort, whose
Tibetan name is Dorje Nyemma (rdo rje snyems ma), it seems that the correct Sanskrit name,
which is attested in several extant sources, is Vajragarvā.↑ This famous verse, beginning
with ‘In my ignorance and delusion...’ is frequently recited during confession practices.
Its source is the Abhidhānottaratantra, The Appendix to the Discourse Tantra (D 369, mngon
brjod rgyud bla ma). The Abhidhāna is an ‘appendix’ to the Laghuśaṃvara, The Smaller Śaṃvara
(D 368, bde mchog nyung ngu), the root tantra of Cakrasaṃvara.↑ These six lines are
taken from Le'u Dünma, The Prayer in Seven Chapters, chapter two.↑ These six lines are also
taken from Le'u Dünma, The Prayer in Seven Chapters, chapter two.