Kṣitigarbha Visualization and Mantra Recitation
by Mipham Rinpoche

kshim yik yongsu gyurpa lé sa yi nyingpo kudok serpo
The syllable kṣiṃ transforms into Kṣitigarbha, golden in colour,
tö yok serpochen shyiwa chen tsa marwa
Wearing a golden upper garment, peaceful, with bloodshot eyes,
metok ngönpö trengwé töchen
And with a garland of blue flowers upon his head.
chak yé shingtok dang
His right hand holds a fruit
yön pemé teng na norbu dang chepa dzinpa
And his left a precious stone upon a lotus.
özer jang ku tro shying dorjé sawo lasokpé khor gyi korwa
He radiates rays of green light and is surrounded by a retinue including Vajrapātāla,
shyalyé khang serpo rinpoche drakri dang gangri korwa
In a golden palace encircled by jewelled rock peaks and snow-capped mountains.
dar dang rinpoche gyenpa sempé kyiltrung gi pé da la shyuk shing gyalwa rik ngé ugyen chen no
Adorned with silks and jewels, he sits in the posture of a bodhisattva on a lotus and moon-disc
and has a crown of the five buddhas.
dé tralpar om
At his forehead is the syllable oṃ,
drinpar ah
At his throat is āḥ,
tukkar hung
And at his heart is hūṃ.
dé lé ö trö yeshepa benza sa ma dza
Lights radiate from these syllables, and with vajra samājaḥ invite the jñānasattva,
dza hung bam ho
Who dissolves into the samayasattva with jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ.
om kshi haradza soha
To seal the union, chant oṃ kṣiharaja svāhā seven times.
Mantra Recitation
om sum bhani sum bha hara tsa ra maha pa sha ma ru ta amo gha benza sa ta soha
oṃ sumbhani sumbha haracara mahāpāśa maruta amogha vajrasattva svāhā
Recite as many times as you can this dhāraṇī known as the Giver of Qualities which contains
great benefits as taught in The Hundred and Eight Names of Kṣitigarbha.
om kshita sa garbha kshim soha
oṃ kṣitasagarbha kṣim svāhā
Recite this mantra.
Through this means of reading the Hundred and Eight Names of Kṣitigarbha and Ten Wheels Sūtra,
the universe will remain stable, riches will increase, you will gain whatever you wish
for, and all glorious qualities will expand enormously.

All the gifts of the devas, nāgas, yakṣas and human beings,As well as those of the bodhisattvas
of the ten directions,I now offer all to the leader of this world whose qualities are
vast.Please accept these excellent forms of offering.
These are the words of Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva from the Sūtra of the Ten Wheels of Kṣitigarbha.

| Translated by Abraham Ta-Quan, 2019.