Prayer to Akṣobhya
by Mipham Rinpoche

emaho
Emaho!
ngöntsé namdak tukkyé mönlam tü
Through the power of your pure past intentions and prayers of aspiration,
danta sharchok ngöngé shying chok tu
Now, to the east, in the supreme pureland of Abhirati—Manifest Joy,
ngönpar sangye gyalwa mitrukpa
You are the fully awakened victorious one Akṣobhya,
drowé gönpo khyé la solwa deb
Protector of beings—to you I pray.

khyé ni tob chu denpé yeshe nyé
You have found wisdom endowed with the ten powers
malü sheja yangdak jishyin zik
And you see all that is knowable just as it is,
dak ni ga na chi sok jikpa gyé
While I am plagued by a hundred terrors, such as ageing and death.
nar shyin khyé la kyab su chiwa zik
Look upon me now as I turn to you in search of refuge!

gönpo khyé ni tayé drowa la
Protector, you who gaze upon all infinite beings
nyingjé chenpö zikpa yol mi nga
With great compassion and unimpeded vision,
dak ni shintu nyamtak jik chen gyi
Be a refuge to me, as I am utterly exhausted,
sor mi rungwar nar la kyab dzö chik
Hopelessly tormented by anxiety and dread.

wang chü wang gi chukpé gönpo khyé
Protector, equipped with the might of the ten powers
dro kün kyobpé tu dang nüpé shuk
And the strength and capacity to protect all beings,
tsungpa mepa dorjé tob ngawé
You who possess vajra fortitude beyond compare,
dak la nyurdu ukyung chok tsol chik
Swiftly grant me the supreme release from suffering.

semchen lé kyi narwa chönyi kyang
It is the nature of things that beings suffer for their actions,
dak ni lhakpar né dang dukngal dang
But I am excessively tormented by sickness and pain,
kyen ngen jikpa mi zö dumé nar
Adversity and unbearable anxiety and apprehension.
kyabdral yiché shintu nyamtak gyur
Bereft am I of refuge, dispirited and fatigued.

dechir mong dang tetsom namtok gyé
Thus, when I cry out to you in anguish and despair,
truk né dungwé odö böpa la
Disturbed as I am by delusion, doubt and speculation,
zikpa dribpa mepé gönpo yi
Please, O protector whose vision is unobstructed,
yeshe tukjé nyurdu gongpar dzö
Consider me swiftly in your compassionate wisdom.

jik dang dukngal di né ukyung né
Once I am relieved of this anxiety and suffering,
jikme dewa chenpo tobpa dang
May I discover the jubilation of freedom from fear,
rangshyen dön nyi lhün gyi drubpa yi
And may you confer the great celebratory attainment
ngödrub chenpö gatön nyewar tsol
Of spontaneously accomplishing my own and others' aims.

Mipham composed this on the third day of the first month of the Iron Ox year. Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.