Profound Instruction on the View of the Middle Way

by Mipham Rinpoche

Namo Mañjuśrīye!

Once you have gone through the training in analysisAnd developed confidence in the crucial pointOf
how the individual is devoid of self,Then consider how, just as the so-called “I” isAn
unexamined conceptual imputation,All phenomena included withinThe five skandhas and the
unconditioned are the same:Labeled conceptually as this or that.

Although we apprehend all these various phenomena,When we investigate and search for what's
behind the labelling, it cannot be found.And when we reach the ultimate two indivisibles,Even
the most subtle and infinitesimal cannot be established.It is the same for all that appears
through dependent origination:Entities themselves arise dependently,And ‘non-entities’
are dependently imputed.

So, whether an entity or non-entity,Whatever is conceived of uncritically,Once it is analyzed
and investigated,Is found to be without basis or origin —Appearing yet unreal, like an illusion,
dream,Reflected moon, echo, city in the clouds,Hallucination, mirage, and the like.Appearing
yet empty, empty yet appearing—Meditate on the way empty appearances resemble
illusions.

This is the ultimate that is categorized conceptually.It has the confidence of a mind of understanding,And
is indeed the stainless wisdom of seeingThe illusory nature of post-meditative
experience.Yet it is not yet free from focus on apprehended objects,Nor have the features
of a subjective mind been overcome,And so, since it has not gone beyond conceptuality,The
true reality of natural simplicity is not seen.

Once this kind of certainty has arisen,Even clinging to mere illusionCan be understood as conceptual
imputation.There is apprehension, but no essential nature to the perceived,And even
the perceiving mind cannot be found,So, without clinging, one is brought to rest in natural
ease.

Remaining like this, all perceptions,Both external and internal, are not interrupted.Yet within
this fundamental nature, free from grasping,All projections imposed upon phenomena,Have
never arisen and never ceased to be.So, free from the duality of perceiver and perceived,We
rest in the all-pervading space of equality.This is beyond any assertions, such as ‘is’
or ‘is not’.And, within this inexpressible state of true and natural rest,An experience
dawns that is free from the slightest trace of doubt.

This is the actual nature of all things,The ultimate that cannot be conceptualized,And can only
be known individually —The non-conceptual wisdom of meditative equipoise.

Once you become familiar with this state,In which emptiness and dependent arising are an inseparable
unity,The ultimate condition in which the two truths cannot be separated,That is
the yoga of the Great Middle Way.

Those who wish to realize this swiftlyAnd make evident non-dual, primordial wisdomBeyond the
domain of the ordinary mind,Should meditate on the pith instructions of Secret Mantra.

This is the ultimate profound and crucial pointOf the progressive meditations on the Middle
Way.

So, begin by thoroughly refining your conduct,And then arrive at certainty, experientially and
in stages.With confidence in the illusory nature of empty appearance,This is what it means
for nothing to be removed or added on the path.And, within the equality of the all-pervading
space of perfect wisdom,There is complete liberation.

In a place where people suffer drought and dehydration,Hearing that there is water does not
dispel thirst;It is only by drinking that relief is found.And this is how it is for learning
and experience — so the sūtras say.Someone with only dry, theoretical understanding,Who
is worn out by all kinds of reasoning and ideas,Does not need sporadic practice; but, when
meditating in proper stages:Will swiftly gain acceptance of the profound.

Jampal Gyepe Dorjewrote down whatever came to mind,On the twenty-ninth day of the eleventh month
of the Water Dragon year (1892).Through this, may all beings realize the meaning of the
profound Middle Way!Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2006.