Satirical Advice for the Four Schools

by Mipham Rinpoche

Namo mañjuśrīye!

Through the enlightened activity of the victorious buddhas,And the skilful means of their bodhisattva
heirs,May the four schools of Buddhist teachings, old and new,Successfully transmit
their perfect methods of awakening!

The transmission of sūtras has fallen to the Gendenpa,The transmission of mantra has fallen
to the Nyingmapa,The transmission of exposition has fallen to the Sakyapa,And the transmission
of practice has fallen to the Kagyüpa.

The Sakyapa are masters of learning,The Gendenpa are masters of discourse,The Kagyüpa are masters
of realization,And the Nyingmapa, masters of spiritual power.

There are four marvellous transmissions:The view beyond all extremes among the Nyingmapa,Perseverance
in meditation among the Kagyüpa,Perfect conduct among the Gendenpa,And regular approach
and accomplishment practice among the Sakyapa.Although for them all everything is
complete,Each school emphasizes a particular discipline.

The Nyingmapa chant through their noses,The Sakyapa intone with their lips,The Gendenpa sing
mainly through the throat,And the Kagyüpa chant strongly from within.

The Gendenpa are like the body of the teachings, with the path of scriptural study complete.The
Sakyapa are like the eyes of the teachings, uniting the two elements of sūtra and mantra.The
Kagyüpa are like the heart of the teachings, bringing devotion into the practice.And
the Nyingmapa are like the life-force of the teachings, holding the profound key instructions
for the tantras and sādhanas.

Now for a few words in jest:

The Nyingmapa claim to have a path for accomplishing the level of Vajradhara through the practice
of clear light Dzogpachenpo, without the need to rely upon an external activity-mudrā
(consort). And yet the lamas say they must take a wife to increase their longevity, improve
the clarity of their vision, maintain good health, and benefit beings through the revelation
of terma. They don’t say that for the sake of the teachings they should teach and practise!
That taking a wife could be a way to benefit the teachings and beings, and a substitute
for teaching and practice, and at the same time improve clarity of vision and the like
is, I think, incredible!

The Gendenpa assert that the antidote to all the pains of existence is the wisdom that realizes
selflessness. And yet they say that when approaching the realization of no-self there
can be such a fear of letting go of this sense of identity that it becomes difficult to sit
still upon the cushion. In the past it was said that the attainment of the path of seeing
and the clear experience of selflessness that precedes it are marked by special feelings
of joy, so I wonder if this is might be a symptom of the current degenerate age!

The Sakyapa accept the Highest Yoga tantras which affirm that inner wisdom is primary, without
regard to conduct. And yet when they recite the Path Stage sādhana, they maintain the discipline
of never leaving their seats, because to do so would transgress their vow. It seems
that if they do ever need to get up and do something, they must crawl along dragging their
seat behind, which might bring about some temporary physical purification and liberation.
Still, I wonder what would happen if they ever stood up!

The Kagyüpa assert that the Great Seal (Mahāmudrā) is the primordial wisdom that pervades all
saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, and yet they explain the word ‘mudrā’ by referring to a hand. Yet what
would such an enormous hand be like? I think it would be marvellous to see one.

Ha ha! That was all said in jest.

There is great significance to the sayings of the great masters of the past,And there are key
points to the intentions of each school, old and new.

What is more, most followers of the Nyingma school shun the taking of life but presume there
is no need to give up women. If they are a genuine yogins, I take refuge in them! But, in
general, this ordinary sexual desire is harmful to the Nyingma teachings, so take care, I
pray!

Most followers of the Kagyü school dislike classical exposition and logic, preferring to consider
only the mind. If they are those in whom realization and liberation are simultaneous,
I take refuge! But, in general, such a closed-minded attitude is harmful to the Kagyü teachings
and must therefore be abandoned!

Most followers of the Genden school shun alcohol and the like, making them exemplary models
of the teaching. Still, most see no faults in those who seek to kill and maim. But such hostility
is a great enemy, so take care, I pray!

Most followers of the Sakya school regard as supreme only those empowerments and instructions
they themselves have received and the branch to which they belong — whether Sakya, Ngor
or another. But this strong prejudice and dogmatism is harmful to the Sakya teachings, so
it must be abandoned!

Generally, even if we are attached to our own tradition, it is important that we have no antipathy
towards other traditions. Considering our own tradition, given that we are all followers
of the Buddha, we can have a close affection for one another. Then, concerning the different
systems of teaching, they began from the time of Khenpo Śāntarakṣita, Guru Rinpoche
and King Trisong Detsen. As a legacy of that excellent past, all of us here in Tibet accept
the four seals which are the hallmark of the Buddhist teachings. We are all equal in
this respect, and, what is more, we all assert the great śūnyatā free from conceptual elaboration.
Not only that, we all accept the mantrayāna with its inseparable unity of bliss and
emptiness. This means that, with our similar views and tenets, we are extremely close.

Other traditions, non-Buddhist outsiders and barbarians, who differ from us even in outer signs
and dress, are as numerous as the stars in the night sky. Compared to them, we Buddhists
are as rare as stars in broad daylight. Now, when the Buddhist teachings are on the verge
of extinction, all who seek to ensure their survival must view one another as the closest
of allies. Any feelings of hostility will bring great ruin, so instead we must regard each
other with joy, like a mother seeing her only child, or a beggar discovering a priceless
treasure.

Having become followers of one teacher,May all students of these same teachings,Abandon hostility
and prejudiced views,And work together with a sense of joy!

Whatever falls outside the scope of the teachings,Whether it appears in ourselves or others,
we must abandon.Whatever is in accord with the teachings,Whether it belongs to us or others,
we must cultivate.

Through the power of this, here within the Land of Snows,May the four great lineages of practice,
methods of victorious Buddhahood,Blaze with the beauty of a wealth of Dharma teachings,And
meet with complete and universal success!

Mati, who knows the nature of all four schools — Sakya, Nyingma, Kagyü and Gelug — wrote this
in jest for a friend. Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2005, with the invaluable assistance of Khenpo Dorje. Revised
2016 with the kind assistance of Ringu Tulku Rinpoche.