Shower of Blessings: A Guru Yoga of the Great Paṇḍita, Glorious Rongzom
by Mipham Rinpoche

rang lü dorjé naljormar salwé
My own body appears clearly as Vajrayoginī.
chiwor dab tong nyidé kyilkhor ü
At my crown, upon a thousand-petalled lotus, and discs of sun and moon,
gyal kün khyenrab ngowo jampé yang
Is the essence of all the buddhas’ wisdom, Mañjughoṣa,
nampa kyabné kündü lamé tsul
In the form of the guru who embodies all source of refuge,
chok lé nampar gyalwé pandita
The paṇḍita who is completely victorious over all,
mawé sengé rongzom chökyi zang
Lion of speech, Rongzom Chökyi Zangpo.
ngakpé chaluk sang gö ber chamchen
He wears the clothes of a mantrin, a secret robe and brocade cloak,
tönting ralpa silbu ku gyab drol
And his long dark blue hair falls freely at his back.
gyé dzum tsenpé zijin lammewa
He smiles in joy and radiates with the majestic splendour of the signs and marks.
chak yé chok jin chakgyé utpalé
His right hand, in the mudrā of supreme generosity, holds the stem
tewar ngo sang raldri tsenpa dzin
Of a pale blue lotus that bears an emblematic sword,
chak yön nyamshyak gyü kyi lekbam nam
And his left hand, in the gesture of equanimity, supports a volume of tantra.
shyabzung miché dorjé kyiltrung gi
His two legs are crossed in the indestructible vajra posture,
yeshe ö nga barwé long na shyuk
And he presides amidst an expanse of blazing, five-coloured wisdom light.
né sum dorjé sum gyi sabön lé
From the seeds of the three vajra syllables at his three centres,
ö trö tsa sum gyalwa rabjam kün
Light shoots out to invoke the infinite deities of the Three Roots,
jetsün lama chok gi nampa ru
Who return in the form of the supreme precious guru,
chendrang damyé nyisu mepar gyur
So that samayasattva and jñānasattva merge indivisibly.
rik nam kün gyi khyabdak dorjé chang
To the Vajradhara lord of all buddha families,
palgön lamé shyab la chaktsal lo
Glorious protector and guru, I pay homage.
tokmé né sak diktung nyé kün shak
All my misdeeds, downfalls and faults accumulated throughout beginningless time, I confess.
ngöjor yitrul chötrin gyatsö chö
I present vast oceans of cloud-like offerings, both real and imagined.
dü sum gewa kün la jé yirang
I rejoice in all the virtuous actions of the past, present and future.
dro kham gyatsor dorjé tabü kü
In your vajra-like form and attuned to the various temperaments of all beings,
zab dang gyaché chökhor korwar kul
May you turn the wheel of the profound and vast Dharma, I implore you.
dak gi dü sum gewa chi sakpa
Whatever virtues I accumulate in the past, present and future,
malü chik tu lo yi yong dom né
I combine them all together in my mind,
khakhyab drowé döndu zungjuk ku
And dedicate them for the sake of all beings who are as infinite as space,
palden lamé gopang tob chir ngo
So that they might attain the kāya of unity, the level of the glorious guru.
di né changchub nyingpor chi kyi bar
From now until I attain the essence of awakening,
palgön lama khyé dang mindral shying
May I never be apart from you, glorious protector and guru.
changchub tob kyang rik kyi dakpo ru
And bless me so that even when awakening is attained,
shyuk né dralwa mepar jingyi lob
You may remain as the lord of my buddha family without ever parting.
jampal khyenpé nyima nying la shar
As Mañjuśrī’s sun of wisdom dawns within my heart,
nyingjé terchen yi kyi tso pel shying
Compassion’s treasury expands upon the lake of my mind,
tutob dorjé dzinpé wanggyur né
And I come to possess the Vajra-holder’s power and strength,
rigdzin gopang drubpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to reach the level of a vidyādhara.
dogyü chi dang khyepar ngagyur gyi
So that the true message of the sūtras and tantras in general
gyü lung mengak zabmö gongpé dön
And profound tantras, scriptures and instructions of the Ancient Translations in particular,
yi la tsolmé ngang gi charwa yi
May naturally and effortlessly arise within my mind,
jinlab wangkur tsol chik pandita
Inspire me with your blessings, and empower me, O paṇḍita!
rik sum yermé palden chö kyi jé
Glorious lord of Dharma, inseparable from the three families,
khyö la solwa tabpa tsam gyi kyang
It is well known that simply praying to you
jinlab nangwa ngönsum tong shyé drak
Brings your blessings and your direct appearance in visions.
tukdam gongpé zik shik rinpoche
Consider me according to your pledges and intention, O precious one!
dengsang nyikma nga dö tü narwé
Now, as we are tormented by the force of the five degenerations,
tenpa né kyang tönpa shyi dangdral
The teachings may endure but the four reliances are absent,
deshek gongpé zab dön nyé kawé
And the profundity of the sugatas’ intentions is difficult to grasp,
dön gyü jinlab dak la powar dzö
Transmit to me the blessings of the genuine lineage.
dak kyang kyewa küntu gön khyö kyi
Continually, throughout all my lives, allow me to be a servant
lab chen trinlé pelwé dren gyur né
Who contributes to the expansion of your magnificent activity,
ten dang tenpé nyingpo nanggyü sum
So that the teachings and their essence, the three inner tantras,
khakhyab shying du dzin kyong pel gyur chik
May be upheld, preserved and spread throughout every realm.
Pray intensely like this. Then:
lamé tukkar da teng dhih yik tar
Upon the moon at the guru’s heart, as the essence of secret mantra
sang ngak nyingpö korwé özer gyi
Revolves around the syllable Dhīḥ, rays of light shoot out
tsa sum gyalwa kün gyi jinlab chü
To gather the blessings of all the victorious deities of the Three Roots,
ku dang ngak treng chaktsen nampa ru
And they rain down as buddha images, mantra garlands and insignia,
char tar babpa lamé ku la tim
All of which dissolve into the guru’s form.
dé lé yeshe dütsi gyün babpé
Through the stream of wisdom nectar that flows from him
ku sung tuk kyi jinlab tobpar gyur
I gain the blessings of enlightened body, speech and mind.
With this visualization and with fervent devotion, recite:
om ah benza maha guru dharma bhadra sarwa siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ vajra mahāguru dharmabhadra sarva siddhi hūṃ
And for the combined guru and yidam practice:
om ah hung benza maha guru dharma bhadra arapatsana sarwa siddhi hung hung ah
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru dharmabhadra arapacana sarva siddhi hūṃ hūṃ āḥ
This life-force mantra of all the vidyādharasTransformed into the guru’s name mantraIs the intent
of the tantras and great sādhanas—Have no doubt that it will bring attainment.
At the end of the session receive the four empowerments and blend your own mind with the guru’s
wisdom mind. Rest in that state, which is mind-as-such without fabrication or alteration,
the genuine nature, which is bodhicitta. When arising from that state dedicate the merit
and recite verses of auspiciousness. Constantly experiencing the merging of the guru’s
appearance with your own mind is the essence of the practice.

In response to a request from Dongak, who is highly dedicated to this tradition, expounds scripture
and reasoning, and is diligent in practice, Mipham Nampar Gyalwa, who has pledged
to follow the peerless great Mahāpaṇḍita, wrote this on an auspicious date. Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.