Summoning the Spirit of Abundance
The Hook of Divine Substance
by Mipham Rinpoche

hung, dering zakar tsé zang la
Hūṃ! Today, when the stars and planets are auspiciously aligned,
cha cha yang gi dzé tram té
The materials for attracting prosperity and good fortune are all laid out.
cha yangguk pé lejé na
As we perform this practice for summoning the spirit of abundance and prosperity,
gong su sollo lha gön tsok
Turn your attention towards us, all you deities and protectors!
könchok sum gyi denpa dang
Through the truth of the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
tsa sum sungmé jinlab kyi
And the blessings of the gurus, devas, ḍākinīs, and guardians,
tönpö to yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of high status possessed by all the influential!
chenpö ché yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of greatness possessed by all the prominent!
darwö dar yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of vigour possessed by all the youthful!
tsenpö tsen yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of potency possessed by all the powerful!
chukpö chuk yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of wealth possessed by all the prosperous!
penpö pen yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of allure possessed by all the charismatic!
khepé khé yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of wisdom possessed by all the learned!
tsünpé tsün yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of discipline possessed by all the ethical!
drubpé drub yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of attainment possessed by all the accomplished!
dewé dé yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of wellbeing possessed by all the blissful!
kyipé kyi yang né dir khuk
We summon now spirit of happiness possessed by all the joyous!
zangwé zang yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of excellence possessed by all the good!
pawé pa yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of courage possessed by all the brave!
dzepé dzé yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of attraction possessed by all the beautiful!
tünpé tün yang né dir khuk
We summon now the spirit of agreement possessed by all in harmony!
chok lé namgyal cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance for perfect victory and success!
samdön drubpé cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance for accomplishing all our aims!
dögu pelwé cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance for increasing all that is desirable!
tsering nemé cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance for longevity and perfect health!
ngatang nyendrak cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance for power and renown!
tashi getsen cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance for auspiciousness and positivity!
riwö tsé né cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance from the peaks of mountains!
gyatsö tingné cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance from the oceans' depths!
chok shyi né né cha yang khuk
We summon prosperity and abundance from the lands in all directions!
lha yang trin shyin tib sé tib
Let the devas’ spirit of abundance amass like billowing clouds!
lu yang gyatso mé ré ré
Let the nagas’ spirit of abundance swirl like the swelling ocean!
mi yang mu shyak dem sé dem
Let the humans’ spirit of abundance radiate with heavenly lustre!
nyima shyindu kyi li li
Shining brightly like the sun,
dawa shyindu ga ra ra
Glowing vividly like the moon,
kar tsok shyindu lam sé lam
Sparkling lucidly like the stars,
nabün shyindu tib sé tib
Gathering thickly like mist,
chulung shyindu du ru ru
Merging and flowing like a river,
drang char shyindu si li li
And showering down upon us like rain!
khu yé khu yé yang khuk so
Khuyé khuyé! Let the spirit of abundance be summoned!
hu yé hu yé yang dü so
Huyé huyé! Let the spirit of abundance be gathered!
hu yé huden yang chak so
Huyé huden! Let the spirit of abundance be brought forth!
cha yi gyatso mé ré ré
An ocean of prosperity swells and churns,
yang gi mu shyak kyi li yi
The spirit of abundance glistens and sparkles with heavenly lustre,
pal gyi nabün tib sé tib
And magnificence gathers and swirls like densest fog!
cha di ri la ma drö la
Let not this prosperity escape into the mountains!
yang di go la ma nyam shik
Let not the spirit of abundance pass beyond the threshold!
pal di shyendu ma yel chik
Let not this magnificence wander elsewhere!
rawar yang pel chuk kyi gang
Let the spirit of abundance increase in our enclosures, filling them with livestock!
bangdzö yang pel dru yi gang
Let the spirit of abundance increase in our stores, filling them with grain!
khyim la yang pel mi yi gang
Let the spirit of abundance increase in our homes, filling them with progeny!
chü chen zé kyi gyatso kyil
Let stocks of nutritious food swell like the ocean!
yang chen nor gyi riwo pung
Let wealth and resources pile up like mountains!
ji chen gö kyi char gyün pob
Let splendid clothing shower down like rain!
taktu lha dang pal né shing
With the divine and the glorious remaining forever,
gyumé bangdzö namkha nyam
And magical treasuries as vast as space itself,
dzemé paljor ngödrub tsol
Grant us the siddhis of inexhaustible wealth!
chok chu namkhé tartuk né
From every direction throughout the whole of space,
cha dang yang gi chü dü té
Gather now the essence of prosperity and abundance,
dak dang drubpé ten la tim
And let it be absorbed into us and the supports of our practice,
mi nub gyaltsen shyindu ten
Remaining forever stable like the banner of victory, never waning,
mishik dorjé tabur tak
Forever present like the vajra, indestructible,
mingyur yungdrung shyindu khyil
And forever immutable like the yungdrung, never changing.
nyida shyindu sal gyur chik
Let this essence be as splendid as the sun and moon!
trin chen shyindu gyé gyur chik
Let it expand like vast, billowing clouds!
dré zang shyindu pel gyur chik
And let it multiply like fine, bountiful harvests!
gang dö pünsum tsokpa yi
Perfectly bestowing whatever we desire,
cha dang yang gi ngödrub gyé
Let the attainments of prosperity and abundance unfold!
yishyin norbu paksam shing
Like a wish-granting jewel, a wish-fulfilling tree,
ter gyi bumpa zangpo shyin
Or an excellent vase of treasure,
chi sam lhün gyi drubpa yi
Let all that we wish for be spontaneously accomplished—
tashi delek deng dir tsol
Grant us, here and now, this auspiciousness, happiness and wellbeing!

Should you recite these seventy-two lines a hundred and eight times, positive signs of summoning
the spirit of abundance and prosperity will appear immediately.
On the 25th day of the fifth month of the Fire Monkey year (1896), in Chimé Chokdrup Ling, this
arose in the lake-like mind of Jampal Gyépé Dorje.
Samaya! Gya! Ithi!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2013. With many thanks to Alak Zenkar Rinpoche who kindly granted
the transmission and clarified several difficult points.

Version: 1.1-20210705