The Mahāmudrā Practice of Stillness, Movement and Awareness

by Mipham Rinpoche

When you are able to practice Mahāmudrā’s three simple categories of stillness, movement and
awareness, the crucial point of ultimately seeing the truth of dharmatā comes about due to
the presence of the buddha-nature (sugatagarbha) and an application of the key points based
on the pith instructions. Since the root of all phenomena lies in the mind, it is through
seeking the key to your own mind that you will come to know mind’s secret, gain insight
into all phenomena, and realize the nature of selflessness. For this, we can therefore dispense
with excessive theoretical analysis and follow instead the pith instructions of the
realized ones.

When you turn within and look into your own mind, if it abides without any movement, that is
what is referred to as stillness. When various forms of conceptualization occur, that is
movement. And in either case, the mind’s own capacity to know itself is what we call awareness.
If you sustain this continuously, you will discover for yourself the key point of how
various experiences of joy or sorrow arise from the mind itself and dissolve back into it.
As long as you understand this, you’ll recognize that all perceptions are but the manifestations
of your own mind. Then, by looking directly into mind’s essence, whether it is still
or active, you will understand that even though it manifests in varied ways, it’s empty
and lacks any kind of true essence. You will know too that this emptiness is not a blankness
like empty space but an emptiness that includes the most sublime of features, since
while it is devoid of any true reality its unceasing clarity still has the capacity to know
and be aware of everything. When you understand mind’s crucial secret in this way, the looker
and that which is looked at are not separate, but there is an experience of genuine
mind-as-such with its own natural luminosity. This is known as the recognition of awareness
and is what is pointed out in Mahāmudrā and Dzogchen. If you can sustain this, your experience
will develop as Saraha explained:

As you look and look into the sky-like nature
That has always been pure, seeing recedes.

This is also the message of the Mother Prajñāpāramitā:

Mind is devoid of mind; the nature of mind is clear light.

There is nothing easier than this. Putting it into practice is crucial.

By Mipham. Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2021.