The Glorious Gift of Longevity and Granting All Desires
A Liturgy for Saving Lives
by Mipham Rinpoche

Visualize Amitāyus, Lord of Boundless Life, above the heads of the beings to be released and
recite:
dak dang semchen tamché dü di né zung té changchub nyingpö bardu gyalwa tsé dang yeshe pak tu
mepa la kyab su chi o
From now on until we reach the essence of awakening, I and all sentient beings take refuge in
Amitāyus, the Victor of Boundless Life and Wisdom.
Three times.
semchen tamché chiwé jikpa lé tar té chimé takpa dampé gopang tobpé chedu tsé tar tongwé gewa
drubpar ja o
In order to free all beings from the fear of death, and so they attain the sublime level of
unending deathlessness, we will engage in the virtue of saving lives.
Recite this verse three times, then generate the four immeasurables. Now recite The Dhāraṇī
of Boundless Life1 three times and scattering barley over them imagine these sentient beings
and their whole species conquer all fear of death, and the Lord of Death himself, and that
throughout all their lives they obtain the siddhi of boundless life.
om namo bhagawate | aparimita ayurjnana subinischita tejo rajaya | tathagataya arhate samyaksambuddhaya
| tadyatha om punye punye maha punye | aparimita punye aparimita punya jnana sambharo
pachite | om sarva samskara parishuddha dharmate gagana samudgate svabhava vishuddhe
mahanaya parivare svaha |
oṃ namo bhagavate aparimitāyur-jñāna-suviniścita-tejo-rājāya tathāgatāya arhate samyak saṃbuddhāya
| tadyathā | oṃ puṇye puṇye mahā-puṇye 'parimita-puṇye 'parimita-puṇya-jñāna-saṃbhāropacite
| oṃ sarva-saṃskāra-pariśuddhe dharmate gagana-samudgate svabhāva-viśuddhe mahā-naya-parivāre
svāhā |
Then, recite the ye-dharmā mantra, and, if you wish, mark the beings to be released with the
sign of saving lives. Draw a svastika with sun and moon above on their foreheads with butter.
om yé dharma hetu prabhava hetun teshan tatagato hyavadat | teshan tsa yo nirodha evam vadi
maha shramana soha |
oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhāvā hetuṃ teṣāṃ tathāgato hyavadat | teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ
svāhā ||
Then, purify them with the svabhāva-mantra:
om sobhava shuddho sarva dharma sobhava shuddho hang
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
tongpé ngang lé mik jé lü pung kham kyemché tamché namdak dewa chenpö rangshyin chöpé trinpung
sam gyi mi khyabpar gyur
Out of the state of emptiness, the body, aggregates, elements, and sense fields of the beings
that are the focal point of the practice become inconceivable cloud banks of offerings,
whose nature is complete purity and great bliss.
Bless them with oṃ āḥ hūṃ and the sky-treasury mantra:
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
nama sarva tatagaté bayo bisho mukhebé sarva takham udgaté saparana imam gagana kham soha
|
namaḥ sarvatathāgatebhyo viśvamukhebhyaḥ | sarvathā kham udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gaganakhaṃ svāhā
||
kyé chok chü shying na shyukpa yi
Kyé! To the buddhas residing in the ten directions’ pure realms,
sangye chö dang gé den dang
To the Dharma, and to the Saṅgha,
lama yidam khandrö tsok
To the gathering of gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs,
chökyong norlha ter gyi dak
To the dharmapālas, wealth deities and treasure guardians,
yul ri zodor karchok kyong
To the chief local deities, and to those who guard virtue,
tsé dzi tsé gön tsendzin lha
To the deities with power over life, who guard life, who control life,
go shying kyobpé lhatsok la
And to all the deities who nurture and protect life
chöpa dampa bulwa ni
I make this sacred offering.
sok uk namshé denpa yi
May all sentient beings, endowed with consciousness
semchen di ni tsé dü lé
And the breath that supports their vitality, be freed
tar té jikme ukyung tob
Of all that endangers their life and be relieved of their fears.
di yi pung kham kyemché nam
Their aggregates, elements, and sense fields
rangshyin namdak chöpé trin
Are clouds of offerings, by nature completely pure.
namkha khyabpar tro jé ching
They bring pleasure that fills the entire sky,
döyön künden dewa ché
The great bliss of everything to delight the senses.
chimé tsé chok drubpé dzé
May these substances that bring supreme immortality,
muta mepar yong sharwé
Manifested here in a boundless and infinite array,
khyé nam tukdam nyenpo kang
Fulfil your sacred and weighty pledges,
gyé rab chok dangden gyur chik
And bring the most sublime and supreme delight!2
dak dang gyujor yöndak gi
May all infinite sentient beings —
tok drang khanyam semchen kün
Headed by us and all sponsors and donors —
dé min chiwé kek lé tar
Be freed from all obstacles that bring untimely death.
shintu yün ring tso gyur shying
May we live for an extremely long time,
delek püntsok tobwar shok
And may every form of goodness and happiness be ours!
pung kham nyampa sorchü ching
May any degeneration of the aggregates and elements be restored!
tenyö dangchü sö su min
May the vital essence of the inanimate and animate universe be rejuvenated!
tsé pal trakdang ziji gyé
May our longevity and wellbeing, our radiance and splendour flourish!
nemé chö jor pelwar shok
May we be free from illness and possess the wealth of Dharma!
dak dang semchen tamché kün
Until we and all sentient beings
lamé changchub tob kyi bar
Reach unsurpassed awakening,
kyewa küntu tsering shying
Throughout all our lives,
chimé tsé chok drubpar shok
May we always have supreme immortality.
gé di khanyam drowa kün
Through this merit
kyechi lé dé dorjé ku
May all infinite sentient beings
gönpo tsepakmé pa yi
Attain the vajrakāya, beyond birth and death,
gopang dampa tobpar shok
The sublime level of Lord Amitāyus.
That being recited, if you wish to add a long-life prayer for the guru:
ditar drubpé lek jé tendrel gyi
Through the auspicious connection of having done this good act
palden lama ka tsé rabten shying
May the form and life of the glorious gurus be perfectly stable,
mejung trinlé chok chur rabtu khyab
May their wondrous activities fill all the ten directions
tuk kyi shyedön yongsu drubpar shok
And may the wishes of their awakened minds be completely fulfilled!
Conclude by scattering flowers while reciting whatever verses of auspiciousness are appropriate.
Then dedicate the merit well.

On the eighth day of the tenth month of the female fire bird year,3 Mipham Namgyal wrote down
whatever came to his mind. May it bring auspiciousness. Maṅgalaṃ!

| Translated by Stefan Mang and Peter Woods, 2019.
↑ This is the dhāraṇī from The Sublime Sūtra of the Great Vehicle entitled “Boundless Life and
Wisdom” (D 675, ārya-aparimita-āyurjñāna-nāma-mahāyāna-sūtra, ‘phags pa tshe dang ye shes
dpag tu med pa zhes bya ba theg pa chen po’i mdo)↑ Here Mipham Rinpoche refers to the main
goals of the gaṇacakra practice, namely the fulfilment (bskang ba) and delight (dgyes
pa) of the assembled deities.↑ Thus Mipham Rinpoche wrote the liturgy on Wednesday, the 1st
of December, 1897, when he was 51 years old.