The Swift Fulfilment of All Wishes
Offering the Flag of Windhorse
by Mipham Rinpoche

ho, künkhyab dakpa yeshe chenpo lé
Ho! Within the all-pervading purity of primordial wisdom,
namrol magak rangnang köpé gyen
Appearances arise, unceasing, as the ornaments of my perception;
tashi lungta nyenpé baden ché
And the great flag of the windhorse, auspicious, sweet‑sounding far and wide,
kunzang chöpé trin chen rabtu tro
Sends out, like Samantabhadra, a vast cloud of exquisite offerings.

dzutrul shukden ta gyal balaha
Miraculous and mighty is the king of horses, Bālāha,1
nam mang rinchen gyen tré lung tar cho
Adorned with the jewel of many kinds, he soars like the wind,
gang sam tokmé dröpa dorjé tob
And travels, unimpeded with his indestructible strength, wherever we so wish.
dzutrul kangpa shyi yi rolpa lé
From his four miraculous limbs, there spread out
chok shyir tak seng khyung druk cho shying ding
In the four directions, a tiger, lion, garuḍa and dragon, taking flight and soaring in the sky.

sa dang barnang namkhé khyön küntu
Over the earth, in the air, and through the whole expanse of space,
dé dang lek dang gyal dang drubpa yi
Sounds of happiness ring out, of goodness, victory and accomplishment,
tashi luyang lha yi ngadra sok
In songs of auspiciousness, with the resounding drumbeat of the gods,
rolmö yang ché metok char beb shing
And melodious strains of music. While flowers fall like rain,
lhadzé chöpé trin gyi chok kün khyab
Clouds of divine offerings pervade every direction,
sa sum gewé tashi pal yön gyi
And all that is excellent throughout the three worlds—
lek tsok malü lhün gyi drubpa yi
Auspiciousness, glory and riches—manifests spontaneously.

yishyin dö jung chöpé terchen di
This vast offering treasure, containing all that could ever be wished for,
tsa gyü lama yidam shyitrö lha
We offer to the root and lineage masters, the peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
né sum khandro damchen chökyong tsok
The ḍākinīs of the three places, and oath-bound Dharma protectors,
drala werma norlha terdak dang
Dralas, wermas, wealth gods and treasure-keepers,
yul lha shyidak karchok kyongwé dé
Local deities, masters of the earth, all who safeguard what is beneficial and wholesome,
go shying kyobpa chöpé drön gyur kün
And all you guests who care for and protect us—
At this point, should you wish to address prayers to particular deities, you may insert verses
such as these:
Gesar
khyepar gesar norbu dradul tsal
Especially you, Gesar Norbu Dradul Tsal,
dzutrul dorjé kyang gö perpo dang
With your miraculous, wild and skilful vajra steed,
patul dangmen kadö ponyar ché
Your fearless warriors, ladies, attendants and envoys—
sol lo chö do tö do ngasol lo
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
upang nyenpo chö kyi ying su tö
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
Hayagrīva
khyepar nangsi wangdü tob kyi lha
You who magnetize all appearance and existence, deity of power,
pema wangchen tachok rolpa yi
‘Mighty Lotus’ Hayagrīva,
kyilkhor lhatsok kadö ponyar ché
With all the deities of your mandala, attendants and emissaries—
sol lo chö do tö do ngasol lo
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
upang nyenpo chö kyi ying su tö
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
Tsokdak
khyepar palgön tsokdak yabyum dang
Glorious protector Gaṇapati, with your consort,
ku sung tuk gön chok chu dé gyé gön
Protectors of body, speech and mind, and protectors of the eight classes in the ten directions,
drala makpön tsedzi shuk gön ché
Along with the drala Makpön Tsedzi Shuk—
sol lo chö do tö do ngasol lo
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
upang nyenpo chö kyi ying su tö
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
Magyal Pomra
khyepar dokham sharchok yulkyong ché
Great guardian of the eastern lands of Dokham,
magyal pomra khor dang kanyen dang
Magyal Pomra, with your entourage and attendants,
masang gyé dé men gyi tsok dangché
Masang wermas and dralas, with all your ladies—
sol lo chö do tö do ngasol lo
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
upang nyenpo chö kyi ying su tö
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
Then, returning to the main prayer:
sol lo chö do tö do ngasol lo
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
gyé rab chokden nyé rab pul gyur né
By offering you these supremely delightful and pleasing gifts,
tutob nüpa dorjé lung shuk kyi
Let the forceful vajra wind of your power and strength,
naljor dakchak khor dang chepa yi
For us practitioners and those around us,
tsé pal sönam lungté tob kyé né
Increase our life, prosperity, merit and the strength of our windhorse.
gang dö trinlé tokmé yishyin drub
And with your actions, unimpeded in any way, make whatever we wish for come to be, just as we
desire.

mitün chok nam tünpé drok su gyur
Transform everything that hinders and troubles us into an ally,
tashi getsen nyenpé baden dreng
Hoist high the inspiring flag of auspiciousness and virtue,
parol golwa tamché zil gyi nön
Overcome all that oppose and stand against us,
chok lé nampar gyalwé trinlé dzö
And, with your enlightened activity, make us victorious over all!

These verses, which are of an auspicious number, were written in the Water Hare year (1903)
on the auspicious occasion of the tenth day of the ninth month, in the hermitage of Padma
Samten Deden Ling in Rudam, by Mipham Nampar Gyalwa. May virtue and goodness abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2006.

Source: mi pham rgya mtsho. gsung 'bum/_mi pham rgya mtsho. 32 vols. Chengdu: [gangs can rig
gzhung dpe rnying myur skyobs lhan tshogs], 2007 (BDRC W2DB16631). Vol. 31: 39–40

Version: 1.2-20220120
↑  Bālāha is an emanation of Avalokiteśvara.