The Secret Path of Wisdom
A Prayer of Aspiration for the Mountain of Glory
by Mipham Rinpoche

emaho
Emaho!
jikrung sinpö drongkhyer pal gyi ri
In the rakṣasas' city of terror, on the Mountain of Glory
ku sum gyalwé shyingkham pema ö
Lies the three-kāya buddha field of Lotus Light,
marnak mepung trukpa drakpö shying
A wrathful realm, dark red like a raging inferno—
nangtar dorjé lü kyi tsitté drong
Within our vajra body the city of the heart.
rigdzin pawo khandrö podrang né
And there in the palace of vidyādharas, ḍākas and ḍākinīs,
rangrig gyurmé dechen dorjé ku
Dwells unchanging, self-knowing awareness, the enlightened vajra body of great bliss―
chok dü gyalwé khyabdak pema jung
Padmākara, lord of all the victorious ones throughout the whole of space and time,
rabjam gyutrul dorjé trin trowa
Emanating clouds of vajra emanations in a boundless, magical display.
kyabné kündü tukjé ter chenpo
Embodiment of all objects of refuge, great treasure of compassion—
dak gi go sum longchö gé tsok kün
My own body, speech and mind, my possessions and all the merit I have accumulated,
kunzang chöpé trin du khyé la bul
In clouds of offerings, like Samantabhadra’s, I offer to you.
yermé nyampé ngang du chaktsal lo
In a state of equality and inseparable unity, I pay homage.
tsechik güpé yi kyi soldeb so
And, with a mind of one-pointed devotion. I pray.
yeshe dorjé damcha chenpo yi
By your great vow of vajra wisdom,
di né changchub bardu rikdak tu
From now until enlightenment, remain as the lord of my buddha family,
shyuk né dralmé jezung jinlab dzö
And without ever parting, grant your blessing and care!
dak gi getsa jinyé sakpa dang
By however many sources of virtue I have accumulated,
tsa sum kündü gurü tukjé dang
And the compassion of the Guru, who embodies the Three Roots,
rangjung yeshe chenpö denpa dang
By the truth of great intrinsic wisdom, and
namdak mönlam drakpö pen shuk kyi
Through the power of this completely pure and fervent aspiration prayer,
namshyik tsé di nangwa nubpé tsé
At the very moment when the appearances of this life fade away,
rangnang dakpa chenpö ö lam la
And the supreme, pure experience of the path of light dawns,
rigdzin lamé tsok kyi dün su shying
May I be welcomed by an assembly of vidyādhara gurus before me,
yidam shyitrö lha yi gyab né ten
Supported by peaceful and wrathful yidam deities behind me,
né sum pawo khandrö ta kor té
And accompanied by ḍākas and ḍākinīs of the three places all around me,
metok charbeb ja ö rolmor ché
And, together with a falling rain of flowers, rainbow lights and music,
dechen pema ö kyi shyingkham su
May I miraculously take birth in the presence of the Guru
gurü drung du dzü té kyewar shok
In the pure realm of great bliss, Lotus Light.

wangjor yeshe chenpö gyutrul lé
Through the powerful, magical display of great wisdom
ku sum gyalwé shying gi köpa kün
All the elements of a realm of the victorious ones of the three kāyas
ma tsang mepa yishyin dögur char
Arise as whatever is desirable with nothing missing—
namdak trulpé shying der kyewar shok
May I be born there in that completely pure, heavenly realm.

orgyen jé dang sé ché gyalwa yi
May the lord of Oḍḍiyāna and the buddhas and their heirs
ukyung zengtö sishyi yönten kün
Grant me relief and encouragement and all the qualities of existence and peace—
ma tsang mepa chok gi ten tob né
An excellent support complete in every way,
dorjé tekpé lam la jukpar shok
And then may I set out upon the path of the Vajra vehicle.

der ni ten dé khoné tsé chik la
There, in one lifetime reliant upon that very support,
rigdzin nam shyi sang lam yongdzok né
May I perfect the secret path of the four levels of a vidyādhara, 1
yeshe dorjé ku nyé gyalten kyong
May I attain  the vajra wisdom body and, preserving the teachings of the Victorious Ones,
guru jé dang gong chö nyampar shok
May my realisation and conduct match the Lord Guru’s own.

dü sum gyalwa gyalsé jampé yang
Victorious ones of the three times and their heirs, such as Mañjughoṣa,
kuntuzang sok sempa ché nam kyi
Samantabhadra and the rest, all great bodhisattvas—
dzok min jangwé namtar gyatso kün
May I be the one, single-handedly, to carry out all their oceanic activity,
daknyi chikpü yongdzok chö gyur chik
And to bring liberation through perfecting, maturing and purifying.

chö ying namkha semchen jisi par
As long as the dharmadhātu, space and beings exist,
khakhyab dro dang khyepar dukngal chen
Then may all beings everywhere, especially the suffering,
khyen tsé nüpa chok gi jedzin shying
Be cared for with supreme wisdom, compassion, and power,
pemé trinlé taktu pelwar shok
And may the enlightened activity of Padmākara continually expand.

chok sum tsa sum tukjé mejung dang
By the wondrous compassion of the Three Jewels and Three Roots,
chönyi denpa chöchen tendrel dang
The truth of reality, the interdependence of phenomena,
dak gi lhaksam dakpé nü tob kyi
And the power and energy of my own pure motivation,
mönlam didak yongsu drubpar shok
May these aspirations be completely realized!

Composed by Jampal Gyepa, a servant of the Victorious Lord Padma. Virtue!

| Translated by Ane Tsöndrü, 2019.
↑ i.e., the four levels of a vidyādhara which are specific to the Dzogchen or Nyingma tradition:
1) matured vidyādhara; 2) vidyādhara with power over life; 3) mahāmudrā vidyādhara; and
4) spontaneously accomplished vidyādhara.