Visualization and Recitation of the Six-Syllable Mantra of Avalokiteśvara
by Mipham Rinpoche

If you wish to practise the visualization and recitation of the six-syllable mantra of Avalokiteśvara
in a simple, unelaborate way, first take refuge, generate bodhicitta and cultivate
the four immeasurables, then recite the following:
hrih, dakpé shying kham po ta la yi ü
Hrīḥ. In the centre of the pure realm of Potala,
rab kar pema dawé den teng du
Brilliant white, on a lotus and moon disc seat,
rangnyi pakpa chenré zik kyi ku
I appear in the form of Noble Avalokiteśvara,
kar sal shyal chik chak shyi shyap nyi pa
White and radiant, with one face, four arms and two legs.
dangpö chak nyi tukkar talmo jar
My first two hands are joined at my heart, and
oma nyi kyi shel treng pé kar nam
The lower two hold a crystal rosary and a white lotus,
dar dang rinchen gyen den kyiltrung shyuk
I wear silk and jewel ornaments and my seated legs are crossed.
chiwor lama öpak mepé gyen
And adorning my crown is Lama Amitābha, Buddha of Boundless Light.
khor du sangye chang sem trin tar tib
All around are buddhas and bodhisattvas gathered like clouds.
né sum om ah hung gi özer gyi
From the oṃ āḥ hūṃ at my three centres streams out rays of light
yeshe lha tsok chen drang nyimé tim
Inviting the hosts of wisdom deities, who dissolve indivisibly.
tuk ü pé dé den la yigé hrih
In the centre of my heart on a lotus and moon disc seat is the syllable hrīḥ,
de tar ngak kyi trengwé korwa lé
Surrounded by the mantra garland. From it
ö trö pak chö dro kün dribpa jong
Light streams out, making offerings to the noble ones and purifying the obscurations of all
beings.
shying kham tamché ri po ta la'i shying
The whole environment becomes the realm of Mount Potala.
nangwa tamché tukjé chenpöi ku
All that appears is the form of the Great Compassionate One,
dra drak tamché yigé drukpé sung
All sounds the speech of the six-syllable mantra,
dren tok tamché yong nyi nyingjé tuk
And all thoughts the wisdom mind of emptiness and compassion.
dzin mé khyabdal nyukmé ngang né dé
Out of the genuine nature, beyond grasping and all-pervading, I recite the mantra:
om mani pemé hung
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ

Recite this six-syllable mantra, or, if you wish, by adding hrīḥ, the seven-syllable mantra.
Then, at some point, continue with:
hrih, rang gi sem la sem kyi tö
Hrīḥ. At my own mind, with mind, I look:
ngö zung mepé namkha dra
With nothing to identify, it's just like space,
chi yang ma tong sang ngé wa
With nothing whatsoever to see, vividly clear,
ngowo tongpa nyi du né
In that essence, which is emptiness, I remain.
om mani pemé hung hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ

tongpa zangtal ngang nyi lé
Out of that experience of unimpeded emptiness
nangwa ma gak sa lé wa
Appearances arise, unobstructed and vividly clear,
rimé kun khyab dü ma ché
Without bias, all-pervasive, uncompounded,
rangshyin ösal ngotsar ché
And with the nature of clear light – how wonderful!
om mani pemé hung hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ

sal shyin tong la tong shyin sal
Clear yet empty, and empty yet clear,
sal tong yermé samjö dral
Clarity and emptiness indivisible, beyond thought and expression—
lhen kyé nyukma dechen di
This innate, genuine state of perfect bliss,
ngedön chenrezik wang yin
Is the ultimate Lord Avalokiteśvara.
om mani pemé hung hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ

Considering the meaning, recite the mantra.
Finally dedicate the merit and recite verses of auspiciousness.

I, Mipham, wrote this according to the meaning of the tantras, scriptures and pith instructions
for Nāthavija's practice. May it be virtuous!  Maṅgalaṃ!

| Translated by Ane Tsöndrü and Adam Pearcey, 2015.

Source: mi pham rgya mtsho. "spyan ras gzigs yi ge drug pa'i bsgom bzlas/." In gsung 'bum/_mi
pham rgya mtsho. 32 volumes. Chengdu: [gangs can rig gzhung dpe rnying myur skyobs lhan
tshogs], 2007. Vol. 25: 547–548.

Version: 1.3-20211217