Wangdü: The Great Cloud of Blessings
The Prayer which Magnetizes All that Appears and Exists
by Mipham Rinpoche

om ah hung hrih
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ!
dechen barwa wang gi podrang du
In the palace of power, the blazing of great bliss,
detong sosor tokpé yeshe ku
Are the embodiments of the wisdom of discernment, union of bliss and emptiness:
machak deden pemé rangshyin lé
Each on a lotus, its nature bliss free from all attachment,
dorjé nyima nangwa chenpö pal
And the splendour of a great, illuminating vajra sun—
chöku nangwa tayé dorjé chö
Dharmakāya Amitābha and Vajradharma,
jikten wangchuk tukjé jechak zuk
Avalokiteśvara, Lord of the World, the very manifestation of compassion,
pema gyalpö khordé ngawang gyur
Padma Gyalpo, all of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa beneath your control,
nangsi zilnön wangchen heruka
Powerful heruka, subjugator of all that appears and exists,
sangwa yeshe benza varahi
‘Secret Wisdom’ (Guhyajñāna) and Vajravārāhī,
demchok döpé gyalpo dechen ter
Döpé Gyalpo, King of Desire, ecstasy supreme, source of the wisdom of great bliss,
malü kyegü yitrok rikjema
Kurukullā, who captivates the mind of every living being without exception,
choktün chakgyé wangchuk detong gar
Masters and mistresses of supreme and ordinary mudrās, dancing in bliss and emptiness,
wangdzé dorjé pawo daki tsok
Hosts of vajra ḍākas and ḍākinīs attract and magnetize.
nangtong nyampa chenpö ngang nyi du
Remaining always within the state of great equality of appearance and emptiness,
dorjé ku yi gar gyi si sum yo
With the dance of your vajra body, you cause the three planes of existence to tremble;
gakmé sung gi shyé dré kham sum guk
With the sound of your laughter, your unceasing enlightened speech, you draw in the three worlds;
özer marpö khordé yong la khyab
Rays of red light burst out to fill all of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
sishyi dangchü yo shying düparjé
And cause the vital essence of conditioned existence and ultimate peace to vibrate and be gathered
in.
dorjé chakpa chenpö tuk kyi ni
With your enlightened mind of great vajra passion,
nam nyi ngödrub dö gü chok tsol shying
You grant the supreme of all things desired—the two kinds of siddhis;
dorjé chakkyu shyakpa chenpo yi
And with your great vajra hooks and lassos
nangsi dewa chenpor domjepa
You bind the world of appearance and existence in great bliss.
tayé gyutrul drawé rolgarchen
Dancers in the play of the limitless net of illusion,
til gyi gongbu chewa shyin shyukpé
Who fill space to overflowing, like a vast outpouring of sesame seeds,
rabjam tsa sum wang gi lhatsok la
Vast array of the Three Roots, hosts of magnetizing deities,
güpé solwa deb so jingyi lob
In devotion we pray to you: inspire us with your blessings,
choktün ngödrub dö gü pal tadak
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme, and so the siddhi
tokmé wang du jepé ngödrub tsol
Of magnetizing, without obstruction, whatever we desire!

This was composed on the first day of the seventh month of the Earth Hare year (1879) by one
named Dhīḥ. Anyone who prays in this way will, without any doubt, accomplish all magnetizing
activities exactly according to their wishes. This prayer may be written on red flags
and flown in the air, or used in prayer wheels powered by heat or wind. Maṅgalaṃ!

| © Rigpa Translations

Source: mi pham rgya mtsho. "snang srid dbang du sdud pa'i gsol 'debs byin rlabs sprin chen/"
in gsung 'bum/_mi pham rgya mtsho. 32 vols. Chengdu: [gangs can rig gzhung dpe rnying myur
skyobs lhan tshogs], 2007. Vol. 32: 193–194

Version: 2.2-20211214